About collaboration for Pages, Numbers, and Keynote
Invite others to your documents and work on them together in real time.
Collaboration is built into Pages, Numbers, and Keynote on iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, Mac, and online at iCloud.com.
To collaborate on your iPhone, iPad, or Mac, you'll need an iPhone, iPad, or Mac with iOS 12, iPadOS, or macOS Mojave or later, and Pages, Numbers, or Keynote version 10.1.
To collaborate using Pages, Numbers, or Keynote online on iCloud.com, you'll need Safari 9.1.3 or later, or Google Chrome for your Mac.
For PC you'll need Google Chrome or Microsoft Edge.
Invite others to collaborate
When you invite people to collaborate on a document, spreadsheet, or presentation, you send an iCloud.com link to them.
Up to 100 people can view and edit a shared document at the same time.
The name of the document is included in the URL.
If the title or content of the document is confidential, make sure to ask participants not to forward the link to anyone else.
You can also invite others to collaborate on Pages, Numbers, or Keynote documents by sharing a folder in iCloud Drive.
When you share a folder, any Pages, Numbers, or Keynote documents in the shared folder automatically become collaborative documents.
People you invite can open and view a shared document of any size.
If your document is larger than 2 GB and you want those you invite to be able to edit it, use Pages, Numbers, or Keynote for iPhone, iPad, or Mac to reduce the document's size to less than 2 GB before inviting others.
Invite people from iPhone or iPad
Sign in to iCloud on your device, then turn on iCloud Drive for Pages, Numbers, and Keynote.
You can share with the document open or from the document manager
With the document open, tap the Collaborate button in the toolbar.
From the document manager, tap Browse, tap Select, then tap the document you want to share.
Tap the Share button , then tap Add People.
The document might have to download to your device first.
To set restrictions on who can view and change your document, tap Share Options, then choose an option.
By default, people who you invite can edit your document.
Tap your preferred method for sending the link.
Add any other information, then send or post the message.
The Collaborate button appears at the top of your document with a checkmark.
This icon also shows how many people have the document open, not including you.
Invite people from your Mac
Sign in to iCloud on your device, then turn on iCloud Drive for Pages, Numbers and Keynote.
Open the Pages, Numbers, or Keynote document that you want to share.
Click the Collaborate button in the toolbar.
To set restrictions on who can view and change your document, click Share Options, then choose an option.
By default, people that you invite can edit your document.
Choose how you want to invite others to work on your document.
Click Share, then send or post the message.
The Collaborate button  will appear at the top of your document with a tick.
This icon also shows you how many people, not including you, have the document open.
Invite people from iCloud.com
Sign in to iCloud.com with your Apple ID, then open Pages, Numbers, or Keynote.
Open the document that you want to share.
Tap or click the Collaborate button in the toolbar.
To set restrictions on who can view and change your document, click Share Options.
By default, people that you invite can edit your document.
Choose how you want to invite others to work on your documents.
If you have web-only iCloud access, you must copy the link.
Click Share, then send or post the message.
The Collaborate button  will appear at the top of your document with a tick.
This icon also shows you how many people, not including you, have the document open.
Restrict a document
If you restrict your document so that only people you invite can collaborate, they must sign in to iCloud or iCloud.com with their Apple ID.
Tap or click the Collaborate button .
Choose Share Options, then select any of the following options:
If you want only specific participants to access the document, choose "Only people you invite".
To open the shared document, those participants must sign in to iCloud or iCloud.com with an Apple ID.
If they don't have an Apple ID, they can create an Apple ID after you share the document with them.
If you want anyone who has the link to the shared document to be able to open it, choose "Anyone with the link".
If you want anyone who can access the document to be able to edit and print it, choose "Can make changes".
If you want anyone who can access the document to be able to view and print, but not edit it, choose "View only".
You can change Share Options at any time.
To change Share Options, click or tap the Collaborate button , then make the changes you want.
Set a password
You can also assign a password to a document so that only those who know the password can open the document:
On your Mac, choose File > Set Password, enter the password and a hint, then click Set Password.
On your iPhone or iPad, with the document open, tap the More button , tap Set Password, enter the requested information, then tap Done.
Online at iCloud.com, click the Tools button , click Set Password, enter the password and a hint, then click Set Password.
If you chose the "Only people you invite" Share Option, only those with permission to edit can add, change, and delete the document's password.
Otherwise, only you can modify the password.
Collaborate on a shared document
You can see the edits that others make in real time, hide or show editing activity, and more.
If you want to see the documents that are shared:
On your iPhone or iPad, tap Recents or the Recents button in the document manager.
Your shared documents appear at the bottom of the screen.
On iCloud.com, click Shared in the document manager sidebar.
When editing a shared document, you can use all of the features of Pages, Numbers, and Keynote, with some exceptions.
See who's working on the document
To see who's joined the document, tap or click the Collaborate button .
If you see a dot next to someone's name in list, it means they have the document open.
Tap or click the dot to see where they are editing.
If you want to communicate with other participants, you can add and reply to comments without leaving Pages, Numbers, or Keynote using threaded comments.
Edit while offline
If you're not connected to the internet, you can still edit a shared document.
Edits you make offline are saved for at least 30 days and upload to iCloud automatically when you go back online.
Other participants will see your changes once your changes have uploaded.
You can check the sync status of your document from the document manager on iPhone or iPad, or by choosing View > Show Sync Status on a Mac.
To send a copy of the document with your changes to someone else before your changes are uploaded, tap the More button on iPhone or iPad or click Share on Mac, then choose Send a Copy.
If you attach a document from the Files app (on iPhone or iPad) or the Finder (on Mac), your changes won't be included.
If someone you're collaborating with deletes an object, Keynote slide, or Numbers sheet you’ve edited offline, those edits won't be in the document when you’re back online and the document syncs with iCloud.
Stop sharing a document
Open the document, then tap or click the Collaborate button > Stop Sharing, then tap or click OK.
When you stop sharing, the document is removed from iCloud Drive for all participants.
If you re-share the document later, the link will remain the same.
If you set the document's Share Option to "Only people you invite," you will need to re-invite participants.
Features not supported with collaboration
If you need to use one of these features, stop sharing the document, make your changes, then share the document again.
When you stop sharing, the document is removed from iCloud Drive for all participants.
If you've restricted the document to "Only people you invite," you will need to re-invite everyone after.
These features aren't currently available when you collaborate with other participants:
Pages, Numbers, and Keynote
Add or edit media files that are larger than 50 MB.
Reduce File Size (File > Reduce File Size).
Drag rows and columns between body and header areas in tables.
Create, delete, or reorder styles.
Edit with Ruby in Asian languages.
Create or edit custom cell formats.
Replace every instance of a font in a document.
Pages
Adjust footnote settings.
Insert, cut, copy, paste, delete, duplicate, reorder, or edit sections.
Adjust EndNote settings.
Add and edit master objects.
Insert date and time smart fields.
Convert Word Processing documents to Page Layout documents and vice versa.
Edit page number settings.
Add or edit master pages.
Reapply master to page.
Numbers
Create or edit forms on iPhone or iPad.
Insert smart fields.
Copy or paste table styles.
Transpose tables.
Keynote
Change slide size.
Change theme.
Record a slideshow or play a previously recorded slideshow.
Add or edit a soundtrack.
Edit presenter notes while you play a slideshow.
Clear a soundtrack or delete tracks.
Clear an existing recording of a slideshow.
Pages, Numbers, and Keynote for iCloud
Some features aren’t currently available when you collaborate from iCloud.com:
If you track changes in a Pages document, you can view the document and select text, but not edit it.
If your Pages, Numbers, or Keynote document has any vertical text, you can view an image of the document on iCloud.com, but not edit it.
Edit objects inside groups.
You can still edit documents containing tracked changes and vertical text in Pages, Numbers, and Keynote on iPhone, iPad, and Mac.
1 On iCloud.com, you can add images up to 10 MB only.
2 You can't reduce the size of a shared document, but you can reduce the size of a copy.
If collaboration isn't available
If you use Pages, Numbers, or Keynote and collaboration isn't available, you might need to update your apps on your iPhone, iPad, or Mac.
Turn on automatic updates so that your apps always stay up to date.
If your device is too old to update your apps, you can still collaborate online on iCloud.com using a Mac or PC.
If you want to send a copy of the document, you can send it without collaborating:
On your Mac, go to Share > Send a Copy.
On your iPhone or iPad, tap the More button  > Share.
On iCloud.com, click the Tools button > Send a Copy.
Use the Dock on your Apple Watch
Quickly open your favorite apps or go from one app to another.
Open an app from the Dock
Press the side button.
Swipe up or down.
Or turn the Digital Crown.
Tap to open an app.
If you scroll all the way down, you can tap All Apps to go to the Home screen.
To close the Dock, press the side button.
Choose which apps appear in the Dock
The Dock can show your most recent apps or up to 10 of your favorite apps.
When you choose Recents, your apps appear in the order that you opened them.
When you choose Favorites, you can choose the apps that appear, but your most recently used app still appears at the top of the Dock.
If it's not already a favorite, you can tap Keep in Dock to add it.
Here's how to choose what appears:
Open the Apple Watch app on your iPhone.
Tap the My Watch tab, then tap Dock.
Tap Recents or Favorites.
Choose your favorite apps
If you arrange the Dock by Favorites, you can choose which apps to show or remove:
Open the Apple Watch app on your iPhone.
Tap the My Watch tab, then tap Dock.
Make sure that Favorites is selected.
Tap Edit.
To remove apps, tap remove icon, then tap Remove.
To add apps, tap add icon.
You can add up to 10 apps.
To rearrange apps, touch and hold Reorder button next to an app, then drag up or down.
To save your changes, tap Done.
Remove an app from the Dock
Open the Dock.
Go to an app, then swipe left.
Tap .
You can remove apps from the Dock whether you arrange by Recents or Favorites.
How Power Nap works on your Mac
Power Nap allows your Mac to perform useful activities while it's asleep.
What does Power Nap do?
If your Mac supports Power Nap, these activities can occur while your Mac is asleep:
Mail receives new messages.
Contacts keep up to date with changes made on other devices.
Calendar receives new invitations and calendar updates.
Reminders keep up to date with changes made on other devices.
Notes keep up to date with changes made on other devices.
Documents stored in iCloud keep up to date with changes made on other devices.
Photo Stream keeps up to date with changes made on other devices.
Find My Mac updates the location of the Mac, so you can find it while it's asleep.
VPN on demand continues working so that your corporate email updates securely.
(Power Nap supports VPN connections that use a certificate to authenticate, not VPN connections that require entering a password.)
Mobile Device Management can remotely lock and wipe your Mac.
And these activities can occur while your Mac is asleep and plugged in to an AC power outlet:
Software updates download.
Mac App Store items (including software updates), download in the background.
Time Machine performs backups.
Spotlight performs indexing.
Help Center content updates.
Wireless base stations can wake your Mac using Wake on Wireless.
During Power Nap, your Mac plays no system sounds, including the Play Sound or Send Message feature of Find My Mac.
If your Mac has a hard drive (HDD) or a Fusion drive, you might hear sounds from the drive as it comes on during a Power Nap update, during operation, and when the drive turns off.
You have the option to turn Power Nap off.
When Power Nap is turned on, your computer might be warm to the touch, even if it's sleeping.
If your Mac exceeds a predefined temperature, Power Nap operations are suspended so that your Mac doesn't overheat.
When your Mac wakes up, it’s ready to go.
Which Mac computers can use Power Nap?
You can use Power Nap on these Mac models:
MacBook (Early 2015 and later)
MacBook Air (Late 2010 and later)
Requires OS X Mountain Lion v10.8.2 and later
MacBook Pro (all models with Retina display)
Mac mini (Late 2012 and later)
iMac (Late 2012 and later)
Mac Pro (Late 2013)
Turn Power Nap on or off
The Power Nap setting is in the Energy Saver pane of System Preferences.
Desktop computers
Choose Apple menu > System Preferences, then click Energy Saver.
Use the "Enable Power Nap" checkbox to turn Power Nap on or off.
The default setting is on if your desktop Mac uses flash storage (not including Fusion Drive).
Energy Saver on desktop computers
Notebook computers
Choose Apple menu > System Preferences, then click Energy Saver.
Click the Battery tab, then use the "Enable Power Nap while on battery power" checkbox to control whether your Mac uses Power Nap while on battery power.
The default setting is off.
Click the Power Adapter tab, then use the "Enable Power Nap while plugged into a power adapter" checkbox to control whether your Mac uses Power Nap while using AC power.
The default setting is on.
Energy Saver on notebook computers
Learn more
Power Nap responds to your battery power state
The year your notebook computer was released determines how Power Nap responds to your battery power state.
Computers with 2013 or a later year in the model name use Power Nap until the battery is drained.
Computers with 2012 or an earlier year in the model name suspend Power Nap if the battery has a charge of 30% or less.
Power Nap resumes when you connect to AC power.
To increase battery life while using Power Nap, disconnect any USB, Thunderbolt, or FireWire devices that may draw power from the computer.
Learn more about maximizing battery life.
Power Nap checks for updates at specific intervals
When your computer isn't connected to AC power, Power Nap communicates and transfers data for only a few minutes per Power Nap cycle.
When connected to AC power, communications and data transfers are continuous.
Mail, Notes, Contacts, Calendar, Reminders, Photo Stream, Find My Mac, and iCloud documents are checked every hour.
To receive updates during Power Nap, Mail and Notes must be open before your Mac sleeps.
Time Machine backups are attempted hourly until a successful backup has been completed.
Software Updates are checked daily.
Mac App Store downloads are checked once a week.
Set up iCloud Drive
Documents that you store in iCloud Drive stay up to date across all of your devices, and you can access them from your iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, Mac, or PC, and on iCloud.com.
Before you begin
Update your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch to the latest iOS or iPadOS, and your Mac to the latest macOS.
Set up iCloud on all of your devices.
Make sure that you’re signed in to iCloud with the same Apple ID on all of your devices.
If you have a Windows PC, update to Windows 7 or later and download iCloud for Windows.
If you have a device that can't update to the latest iOS or macOS, see the minimum system requirements to use iCloud Drive.
Get started
Set up iCloud Drive everywhere that you want to access and edit your files.
On your iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch
Go to Settings > [your name].
Tap iCloud.
Turn on iCloud Drive.
You can find your iCloud Drive files in the Files app.
If you're using iOS 10 or iOS 9, tap Settings > iCloud > iCloud Drive.
Turn on iCloud Drive, and tap Show on Home Screen.
Then you'll find your files in the iCloud Drive app.
On your Mac
Go to Apple menu  > System Preferences, then click Apple ID.
If you’re using macOS Mojave or earlier, you don’t need to click Apple ID.
Select iCloud.
Sign in with your Apple ID, if you need to.
Select iCloud Drive.
If you want to add the files from your Mac Desktop and Documents folder to iCloud Drive, update your Mac to macOS Sierra or later then turn on Desktop and Documents.
On your Mac, you can find the files on your Desktop and in your Documents folder in Finder under iCloud.
If you add a second Mac Desktop, the files from your second Mac won't automatically merge with the files on your first Mac.
Go to your Desktop and Documents folders in iCloud Drive, then look for a folder with the same name as your second Mac.
On iCloud.com
Sign in to iCloud.com.
Select Pages, Numbers, or Keynote.
Click Upgrade to iCloud Drive, if you are asked to upgrade.
On your Windows PC
After you set up iCloud Drive on your iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, or Mac, you can set it up on your Windows PC.
Go to Start, open Apps or Programs, and open iCloud for Windows.
Enter your Apple ID to sign in to iCloud.
Select iCloud Drive, then click Apply.
What's next
After you set up iCloud Drive, any documents that you've already stored in iCloud are automatically moved to iCloud Drive.
Your iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch keep your files in the Files app in addition to the Pages, Numbers, and Keynote apps.
If you don't see your files in these apps, they might be on a device that doesn't have iCloud Drive turned on.
Use Mission Control on your Mac
Mission Control offers a bird's-eye view of all your open windows, desktop spaces, and any apps in full screen or Split View, making it easy to switch between them.
Open Mission Control
Swipe up with three or four fingers on your trackpad, or double-tap the surface of your Magic Mouse with two fingers.
Open the Mission Control app, which is in your Applications folder.
Press the Mission Control key  on your Apple keyboard or Touch Bar.
Add spaces and switch between them
The Spaces bar at the top of the Mission Control window contains thumbnails of each desktop space and each window that is in full screen or Split View.
To add a space, move your pointer to the Spaces bar, then click the add button  on the right:
When you have multiple spaces, you can switch between them by clicking the thumbnails the top of the Mission Control window.
Or use these methods, which work even when you're not in Mission Control:
Swipe left or right with three or four fingers on your trackpad, or swipe left or right with two fingers on your Magic Mouse.
Press Control–Right Arrow or Control–Left Arrow on your keyboard.
Move windows to spaces
When you have more than one space, you can move windows to and from each space.
Just drag the window onto the other space's thumbnail in the Spaces bar.
If you drag a window onto an empty area of the Spaces bar, that window opens in full screen in its own new space:
If you drag a window onto the thumbnail of a full-screen app, that window joins the other window in Split View:
Move or remove spaces
To move a space, drag its thumbnail to the left or right of another space in the Spaces bar.
To remove a space, press and hold the Option key, then click the x in a circle or the double arrows in a circle next to the space's thumbnail in the Spaces bar.
Any windows in that space then automatically move to your first desktop space.
Change your Apple ID password
Follow these steps to change your Apple ID password.
On your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch with iOS 10.3 or later
Tap Settings > [your name] > Password & Security.
Tap Change Password.
Change password screen on iPhone
Enter your current password or device passcode, then enter a new password and confirm the new password.
Tap Change or Change Password.
Sign in with your new Apple ID password to access Apple features and services.
Learn more about how to change your Apple ID and update other account information.
On your Mac with macOS Catalina
Choose Apple menu  > System Preferences, then click Apple ID.
Click Password & Security.
Click Change Password.
Before you can reset your Apple ID password, you'll be required to enter the password used to unlock your Mac.
On your Mac with macOS Mojave or earlier
Choose Apple menu  > System Preferences, then click iCloud.
Choose Account Details.
Click Security > Reset Password.
Before you can reset your Apple ID password, you'll be required to enter the password used to unlock your Mac.
On the web
Sign in to your Apple ID account page.
In the Security section, click Change Password.
Enter your current password, then enter a new password and confirm the new password.
Click Change Password.
Sign in with your new Apple ID password to access Apple features and services.
If you forgot your password
If you don't remember your Apple ID password, follow these steps to reset it.
After you reset your password, you need to update your Apple ID and password in each service that you’re signed in to.
Learn more about passwords and your Apple ID
Your Apple ID is the account you use to access Apple services like the App Store, Apple Music, iCloud, iMessage, FaceTime and more.
When you create a new password, keep the following in mind:
Your new Apple ID password must contain at least eight characters, a number, an uppercase letter, and a lowercase letter.
You can't use spaces, the same character three times in a row, your Apple ID, or a password you've used in the last year.
Learn more about password requirements and how to keep your Apple ID secure.
FaceTime is not available in all countries or regions.
Restore your Mac from a backup
Learn how to transfer all files from your Time Machine backup to your Mac.
If you used Time Machine to create a backup of your Mac, you can restore your files from that backup or a local snapshot on your startup disk.
You might want to restore your files after the originals were deleted from your Mac, or the hard disk (or SSD) in your Mac was erased or replaced, such as during a repair.
Restore from a Time Machine backup
When you restore from a Time Machine backup, you can choose to restore all your files, or restore both the Mac operating system (macOS) and all your files.
Restore all your files
Make sure that your Time Machine backup disk is connected to your Mac and turned on.
Then turn on your Mac.
Open Migration Assistant, which in the Utilities folder of your Applications folder.
If your Mac starts up to a setup assistant, which asks for details like your country, keyboard, and network, just continue to the next step.
The setup assistant includes a migration assistant.
If your Mac doesn't start up all the way, or you also want to restore the macOS you were using when you created the backup, follow the steps to restore both macOS and your files.
When you're asked how you want to transfer your information, select the option to transfer from a Mac, Time Machine backup, or startup disk.
Then click Continue.
Migration Assistant window
Select your Time Machine backup, then click Continue.
Migration Assistant window
If you're asked to choose from a list of backups organized by date and time, choose a backup and click Continue.
Migration Assistant window
Select the information to transfer, then click Continue to start the transfer.
This screen might look different on your Mac:
Migration Assistant window
If you have a lot of content, the transfer might take several hours to finish.
When the transfer is complete, restart your Mac and log in to the migrated account to see its files.
Restore both macOS and your files
These steps erase your hard disk, then use your backup to restore both your files and the specific version of macOS you were using when you created the backup.
Make sure that your Time Machine backup disk is connected and turned on.
If your backup disk isn't available, keep going: You might be able to restore from a local snapshot on your startup disk.
Turn on your Mac, then immediately press and hold Command (⌘)-R to start up from macOS Recovery.
Release the keys when you see the Apple logo or spinning globe.
When you see the macOS Utilities window, choose the option to restore from a Time Machine Backup.
Click Continue until you're asked to select a restore source, then select your Time Machine backup disk.
Or select your startup disk (Macintosh HD), which might have a local snapshot you can restore from.
Click Continue.
If your disk is encrypted, you're asked to unlock the disk: Enter the administrator password you used when setting up Time Machine, then click Continue again.
Select a backup, if available, then click Continue.
Select a destination disk, which will receive the contents of your backup.
If restoring from a local snapshot, you aren't asked to select a destination.
Click Restore or Continue.
If your Mac has FileVault turned on, you're asked to enter your administrator password to unlock the disk.
When done, restart your Mac.
Restore specific files
Learn how to use Time Machine to restore specific files, including older versions of your files.
Learn more
Other ways to back up and restore files
What to do if you can't restore with Time Machine.
If you need help, contact Apple Support.
Java for OS X 2014-001: How to re-enable the Apple-provided Java SE 6 web plug-in and Web Start features
Learn how to re-enable the Apple-provided Java SE 6 Java SE 6 web plug-in and Web Start features in OS X Lion and later.
If, after installing Java for OS X 2014-001 and the latest version of Java 7 from Oracle, you want to disable Java 7 and re-enable the Apple-provided Java SE 6 web plug-in and Web Start functionality, follow these steps.
Note: You must be logged in as an administrator.
-If prompted for your administrator password after a command, enter it and then press the Return or Enter key.
Open Terminal, located in the Utilities folder.
Enter this command, then press the Return or Enter key:
sudo mkdir -p /Library/Internet\ Plug-Ins/disabled
Enter this command, then press the Return or Enter key:
sudo mv /Library/Internet\ Plug-Ins/JavaAppletPlugin.plugin /Library/Internet\ Plug-Ins/disabled
Enter this command, then press the Return or Enter key:
sudo ln -sf /System/Library/Java/Support/Deploy.bundle/Contents/Resources/JavaPlugin2_NPAPI.plugin /Library/Internet\ Plug-Ins/JavaAppletPlugin.plugin
To re-enable Java SE 6 Web Start, enter this command, then press the Return or Enter key:
sudo ln -sf /System/Library/Frameworks/JavaVM.framework/Commands/javaws /usr/bin/javaws
Learn more
The following steps will undo the above commands and restore Java 7 in OS X Lion and later.
Disable Java SE 6 Web Start opening:
Enter this command, then press the Return or Enter key:
sudo ln -sf /System/Library/Frameworks/JavaVM.framework/Versions/Current/Commands/javaws /usr/bin/javaws
When prompted, enter your administrator password, then press the Return or Enter key.
Re-enable the Java 7 applet plug-in by downloading and reinstalling the latest version of Oracle Java 7 JRE.
Use Blackmagic eGPU with your Mac
Blackmagic eGPU and Blackmagic eGPU Pro are external graphics processors that give your Mac added graphics power for pro app workflows, gaming, VR creation, and more.
Created in close collaboration with Apple, Blackmagic Design's Blackmagic eGPU and Blackmagic eGPU Pro bring accelerated pro app workflows, smoother gameplay, and true-to-life VR content creation to your Mac.
Technical specifications
Blackmagic eGPU includes a Radeon Pro 580 graphics processor with 8GB DDR5 memory, giving your connected Mac graphics performance that's similar to a high-end 27-inch iMac.
Blackmagic eGPU Pro includes a Radeon RX Vega 56 graphics processor with 8GB HBM2 memory.
-This gives your connected Mac graphics performance that's similar to iMac Pro.
In addition to boosting graphics performance, both Blackmagic eGPUs provide 85 watts of charging power to MacBook Air and MacBook Pro.
Blackmagic eGPU has these ports to connect displays and VR accessories:
Two Thunderbolt 3 (USB-C)
Four USB 3.0
One HDMI 2.0
Blackmagic eGPU Pro has these ports:
Two Thunderbolt 3 (USB-C)
Four USB 3.0
One HDMI 2.0
One DisplayPort 1.4
System requirements
Blackmagic eGPU is compatible with any Thunderbolt 3-equipped Mac running macOS High Sierra 10.13.5 or later.
Blackmagic eGPU Pro requires a Thunderbolt 3-equipped Mac and macOS Mojave 10.14.1 or later.
If you have a Mac mini (2018) or Mac Pro (2019) with FileVault turned on, make sure to connect your primary display directly to your computer during startup.
After you log in and see the macOS desktop, you can unplug the display from your computer and connect it to Blackmagic eGPU.
To connect Apple Pro Display XDR to Blackmagic eGPU or Blackmagic eGPU Pro, make sure your Mac is running macOS Catalina 10.15.2 and your eGPU has the latest firmware.
Here's how to update the firmware of your eGPU:
Go to the Blackmagic website.
Select the DaVinci Resolve, Fusion, and BlackMagic eGPU product family.
Download and install the latest firmware for your eGPU.
Connect and use Blackmagic eGPU
When you connect Blackmagic eGPU or Blackmagic eGPU Pro to your Mac with a Thunderbolt 3 (USB-C) cable, the eGPU menu bar item  appears, indicating that the eGPU is ready for use.
Blackmagic eGPU automatically accelerates the graphics from Metal-based apps on external displays and devices that are connected to the eGPU.
You can use Activity Monitor to confirm that your eGPU is in use:
Open Activity Monitor, which is in the Utilities folder inside Applications.
Choose Window > GPU History.
A graph appears, charting the activity of your computer's internal GPU and Blackmagic eGPU.
To disconnect Blackmagic eGPU, use the menu bar item  to safely disconnect the eGPU from your Mac before unplugging the cable.
Use the "Prefer external GPU" option
Starting with macOS Mojave 10.14, you can turn on "Prefer external GPU" in a specific app's Get Info panel in the Finder.
This option lets Blackmagic eGPU and Blackmagic eGPU Pro accelerate apps on any display connected to the Mac — including displays built in to the Mac:
Quit the app if it's open.
Select the app in the Finder.
Most apps are in your Applications folder.
If you open the app from an alias or launcher, Control-click the app's icon and choose Show Original from the pop-up menu.
Then select the original app.
Press Command-I to show the app's info window.
Select the checkbox next to Prefer external GPU.
Open the app to use it with the eGPU.
Learn more about using eGPUs with your Mac.
Learn more
macOS currently doesn't support eGPUs in Windows using Boot Camp or when your Mac is in macOS Recovery, at FileVault login, or installing system updates.
﻿Use FileVault to encrypt the startup disk on your Mac
FileVault full-disk encryption (FileVault 2) uses XTS-AES-128 encryption with a 256-bit key to help prevent unauthorized access to the information on your startup disk.
Turn on and set up FileVault
FileVault 2 is available in OS X Lion or later.
When FileVault is turned on, your Mac always requires that you log in with your account password.
Choose Apple menu > System Preferences, then click Security & Privacy.
Click the FileVault tab.
Click Locked, then enter an administrator name and password.
Click Turn On FileVault.
If other users have accounts on your Mac, you might see a message that each user must type in their password before they will be able to unlock the disk.
For each user, click the Enable User button and enter the user's password.
User accounts that you add after turning on FileVault are automatically enabled.
Choose how you want to be able to unlock your disk and reset your password, in case you ever forget your password:
If you're using OS X Yosemite or later, you can choose to use your iCloud account to unlock your disk and reset your password.*
If you're using OS X Mavericks, you can choose to store a FileVault recovery key with Apple by providing the questions and answers to three security questions.
Choose answers that you're sure to remember.*
If you don't want to use iCloud FileVault recovery, you can create a local recovery key.
Keep the letters and numbers of the key somewhere safe—other than on your encrypted startup disk.
If you lose both your account password and your FileVault recovery key, you won't be able to log in to your Mac or access the data on your startup disk.
Encryption occurs in the background as you use your Mac, and only while your Mac is awake and plugged in to AC power.
You can check progress in the FileVault section of Security & Privacy preferences.
Any new files that you create are automatically encrypted as they are saved to your startup disk.
When FileVault setup is complete and you restart your Mac, you will use your account password to unlock your disk and allow your Mac to finish starting up.
FileVault requires that you log in every time your Mac starts up, and no account is permitted to log in automatically.
Reset your password or change your FileVault recovery key
If you forget your account password or it doesn't work, you might be able to reset your password.
If you want to change the recovery key used to encrypt your startup disk, turn off FileVault in Security & Privacy preferences.
You can then turn it on again to generate a new key and disable all older keys.
Turn off FileVault
If you no longer want to encrypt your startup disk, you can turn off FileVault:
Choose Apple menu > System Preferences, then click Security & Privacy.
Click the FileVault tab.
Click Locked, then enter an administrator name and password.
Click Turn Off FileVault.
Decryption occurs in the background as you use your Mac, and only while your Mac is awake and plugged in to AC power.
You can check progress in the FileVault section of Security & Privacy preferences.
Learn more
Learn how to create and deploy a FileVault recovery key for Mac computers in your company, school, or other institution.
If you're using FileVault in Mac OS X Snow Leopard, you can upgrade to FileVault 2 by upgrading to OS X Lion or later.
After upgrading OS X, open FileVault preferences and follow the onscreen instructions to upgrade FileVault.
RAID partitions or non-standard Boot Camp partitions on the startup drive might prevent OS X from installing a local Recovery System.
Without a Recovery System, FileVault won't encrypt your startup drive.
Learn more.
Get help with video issues on external displays connected to your Mac
Try these steps if the image on an external display connected to your Mac is blank or doesn't look the way you expect.
Before you begin
You can resolve many display issues by updating the software on your Apple devices, cables, and adapters.
If you can see an image on your screen, check for software updates using the Mac App Store:
Connect your external display and any Apple video cables or adapters that you use with it.
From the Apple menu, choose App Store.
Click the Updates button in the App Store window.
Install any macOS or firmware updates that are listed.
If you're using a display, hub, extender, or adapter not made by Apple, check with the manufacturer for any updates that might be available.
If you're trying to connect a 4K display or Ultra HD TV with your Mac, make sure your computer meets the requirements for using these external displays.
If your software and firmware are up to date, or if you can't see the image on your screen, try the steps below for your specific issue.
Blank or unusable
display
Fuzzy or blurry
images
Contrast or color
issues
Thunderbolt 3
(USB-C)
If the display image is blank or unusable
Try these steps if you don't see an image on your display.
These steps can also help if the image on your screen repeatedly turns on and off (flickers), if horizontal lines appear (snow), or if the image is distorted (torn or scrambled).
These steps likely won't help if the issue is only happening in one app.
If you see similar issues in only one window or app, check with the app's developer for updates or more help.
Check connections
Check the connections to your Mac and external displays:
If you're using an Apple notebook, try connecting its power adapter.
Make sure the external display's power cable is securely connected and that your display is turned on.
If you're using a Mac Pro (Late 2013) make sure your displays are connected to the right ports.
If you're using a display hub, switchbox, or "KVM," try connecting your display's video cable directly to your Mac instead.
Disconnect the video cable where it plugs into your Mac, then plug it back in to reseat the connection.
If you're using a video adapter, unplug the video adapter from your Mac, then plug it back in to reseat the connection.
If you're using more than one video adapter to connect your display (the adapters are "chained" together), try connecting the display using only one adapter if possible.
Some video adapters can't be connected together.
For example, a mini DisplayPort to DVI adapter can't be connected to a DVI to HDMI adapter.
If your display has more than one video connection, see if using another connection on the display works.
If possible, check to see if using a different display or a different adapter works.
Try using a different cable that you know is in working order.
Check with the display's manufacturer to make sure you're using the cable they recommend.
Restart the Mac with the display connected.
Detect your display
If you're using an external display, sleep and wake your Mac to make it check for connected displays:
Press the power button on your computer to put it to sleep, or choose Apple menu > Sleep.
Wait a few moments, then press a key on your keyboard or click your mouse or trackpad to wake your Mac.
If you're using more than one display, and you can see the image on one of the displays, you can also use Displays preferences to check for connected displays.
Adjust video settings
If there's no image on your display, try adjusting your display's brightness or contrast.
If there's still no image, or the image appears torn or scrambled, try selecting a different video resolution in System Preferences.
Adjust brightness
If you're using an Apple Display, press the increase brightness key F2 key image  on your Apple keyboard.
To adjust the brightness of a secondary display, press Control-F2.
If you're using a display that's not made by Apple, check the documentation that came with your display to see if it includes built-in controls for adjusting its brightness or contrast.
Change your display resolution
From the Apple menu, choose System Preferences.
Click the Displays icon.
Click Default for display.
If you see more than one resolution listed, choose a resolution and refresh rate.
If the display turns off when you change resolutions, press the escape key to undo the change.
displays preferences window
If you can't change the resolution of your display because you can't see an image, restart your Mac in safe mode to reset the display resolution to defaults.
If starting in safe mode doesn't resolve the issue, reset your Mac's NVRAM and SMC to reset the video ports on your Mac to their defaults.
Check for third-party display software
If your display works only when your Mac is started in safe mode, and you have display-related software installed, check with the software's developer for updates, or try temporarily uninstalling it.
If an image appears fuzzy or blurry
If images or text on your display appear pixelated or blurry, check these things.
Check your display resolution
Make sure your display resolution in System Preferences is set to its default.
If you're using a resolution that's scaled, the image might be magnified to fit the display.
This can cause the image to look blurry in some apps.
From the Apple menu, choose System Preferences.
Click the Displays icon.
Select Default for display.
displays preferences window
If you use a monitor or an HDTV connected with an HDMI cable, you might see a difference in video quality if your display is set to television mode.
Check your display for a "monitor mode" setting to get the best video quality.
Retina displays
If an app you're using appears low resolution on your Retina display, check to see if an update to the app is available.
Most apps have been updated to use the higher pixel densities of Retina displays.
Lower-resolution images on some web pages might also appear "softer" when viewed on a Retina display.
This is because Retina displays have a higher pixel density and not all websites use Retina-ready images.
For example, the images below look different when viewed on a Retina display, but the same on a non-Retina display.
This happens because the Retina-ready image has a higher pixel density:
Standard image	Retina-ready image
Learn more about Retina displays
If you see contrast or color issues
If your entire display image seems too dark or too bright, you can adjust the brightness and contrast from the Displays pane of System Preferences, or by using your display's built-in controls.
Adjust brightness and contrast
To adjust the brightness of your Apple display, press the brightness key F2 key image or F2 key on your keyboard.
You can also use the brightness adjustment for each connected display in System Preferences > Displays.
Displays not made by Apple sometimes have brightness and color adjustments built into the display.
Check the documentation for your display to see if it includes built-in controls.
When you connect a display, projector, or HDTV using an HDMI cable, you might see a difference in video quality if your display is set to television mode.
Check your device for a "monitor mode" setting to achieve the best video quality.
You can also calibrate each display from the Color tab of Displays preferences to get the best color and brightness from your display.
If you see bright or dark pixels
If individual pixels on your display seem too bright or too dark, see these articles for more help:
About LCD display pixel anomalies for Apple products released in 2010 and later
About LCD display pixel anomalies for Apple products released before 2010
Connecting displays with Thunderbolt 3 (USB-C)
The Apple Thunderbolt 3 (USB-C) to Thunderbolt 2 Adapter connects Mac models with Thunderbolt 3 (USB-C) ports to older devices that use Thunderbolt (10Gbps) or Thunderbolt 2 (20Gbps).
For example, this is the adapter that you should use to connect your MacBook Pro to an Apple Thunderbolt Display or a third-party Thunderbolt 2 storage device.
This adapter doesn't support connections to Mini DisplayPort displays, including the following Apple adapters and displays:
Apple Mini DisplayPort to Dual-Link DVI Adapter
Apple Mini DisplayPort to DVI Adapter
Apple Mini DisplayPort to VGA Adapter
Apple LED Cinema Display
If you're using the Thunderbolt 3 (USB-C) to Thunderbolt 2 Adapter to connect to a compatible display and the display doesn't show an image, try unplugging the adapter and plugging it back in.
Get more help
If you've tried these steps and your display still isn't working, contact Apple Support to get more help.
Use Pages, Numbers, and Keynote with Box
Collaborate with others in real time on Pages, Numbers, and Keynote documents stored in Box.
You can also preview, edit, and create new documents online at box.com.
Collaborate on documents using Box with these Apple devices and software versions:
An iPhone, iPad, or Mac with iOS 12, iPadOS, or macOS Mojave or later, and Pages, Numbers, or Keynote version 10.1.
Box 4.3.0 or later for your iPhone or iPad, or Box Drive for Mac 1.10 or later or Box Edit for Mac 4.0 or later.
To collaborate on Pages, Numbers, or Keynote documents online at box.com, you'll need Safari 9.1.3 or later or Google Chrome for your Mac, or Google Chrome or Microsoft Edge for your PC.
Get started
Visit box.com to sign up for a personal1 Box account.
Already have one?
If so, go to the next step.
If you have a personal account, sign in, then click or tap your initials in the top-right corner of the browser.
Select Account Settings, then choose Integrations.
For enterprise accounts, Box Enterprise Admins can access Integrations settings in the Admin Console > Settings > Apps.
To turn on iWork collaboration, select iWork Collaboration.
To preview iWork documents online in Box, select iWork Previews.
Collaborate on a Document
Once you set up Box and turn on iWork collaboration, you can automatically edit with others in real time on any iWork document that's already stored in Box.
To start collaborating on a new document, move or save your document into Box:
On Mac, drag your document to the Box folder in the Finder sidebar.
If Box isn't in the Finder sidebar, open the Box app from the Applications folder.
On iPhone or iPad, move or copy your document into Box using either the document manager in Pages, Numbers, or Keynote or the Files app.
2 Online in your Box account, sign in to your account, then drag the document to the All Files screen.
Or, click Upload, choose File, then choose the document.
To invite others, open your document from the Box folder, click or tap the Collaboration button , then invite people via box.com.
After you've started collaborating, you can manage the document:
To see who is currently editing the document, click or tap the Collaboration button .
To set restrictions for who can view and make changes to your document, click or tap the Collaboration button , then tap Share Settings.
Edit when you’re offline
If you're not connected to the internet, you can still edit a shared document.
Edits you make offline are saved for at least 30 days and upload to Box automatically when you go back online.
Other participants will see your changes once your changes have uploaded.
You can check the sync status of your document from the document manager on iPhone or iPad, or by choosing View > Show Sync Status on a Mac.
To send a copy of the document with your changes to someone else before your changes are uploaded, tap the More button  on iPhone or iPad or click Share on Mac, then choose Send a Copy.
If you attach a document from the Files app on iPhone or iPad or the Finder on Mac, your changes won't be included.
If someone you're collaborating with deletes an object, Keynote slide, or Numbers sheet you’ve edited offline, those edits won't be in the document when you’re back online and the document syncs with Box.
Preview, edit, and create iWork documents online in Box
You can preview, edit, and create new iWork documents within a browser when signed in to your Box account.
3 From the Files and Folders screen, here's what you can do:
To preview an iWork document online in Box, select the document.
To edit an iWork document online in Box, select the document, select Open in the toolbar, then choose Pages, Numbers, or Keynote on the Web.
To create a new iWork document online in Box, click New.
Then, choose a Pages document, Numbers spreadsheet, or Keynote presentation.
Learn more
Get help with Pages, Numbers, and Keynote.
Get help with Box.
Terms and privacy
While using iWork collaboration or viewing an iWork preview or document on the web, your files will be temporarily stored on secure Apple servers.
Your use of the iWork applications is subject to Apple's iWork on the Web Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.
If you have a personal Box account, you can turn off Box collaboration and previews on the Integrations tab of your Account Settings.
If you have a Box enterprise account, please contact your organization.
1. To use iWork collaboration with a Box enterprise account, iWork collaboration must be turned on by your organization.
2. Make sure you've added Box to your Locations on your iPhone or iPad.
Once you've added Box, you can move and copy documents into Box with the document manager and the Files app.
3. You can open a document of up to 1 GB on box.com.
If your document is larger than 1 GB, use Pages, Numbers, or Keynote on iPhone, iPad, or Mac to reduce its size before trying to open it on box.com.
About the security content of iOS 8.4
This document describes the security content of iOS 8.4.
For the protection of our customers, Apple does not disclose, discuss, or confirm security issues until a full investigation has occurred and any necessary patches or releases are available.
To learn more about Apple Product Security, see the Apple Product Security website.
For information about the Apple Product Security PGP Key, see How to use the Apple Product Security PGP Key.
Where possible, CVE IDs are used to reference the vulnerabilities for further information.
To learn about other security updates, see Apple security updates.
iOS 8.4
Application Store
Available for: iPhone 4s and later, iPod touch (5th generation) and later, iPad 2 and later
Impact: A malicious universal provisioning profile app may prevent apps from launching
Description: An issue existed in the install logic for universal provisioning profile apps, which allowed a collision to occur with existing bundle IDs.
This issue was addressed through improved collision checking.
CVE-ID
CVE-2015-3722 : Zhaofeng Chen, Hui Xue, and Tao (Lenx) Wei from FireEye, Inc.
Certificate Trust Policy
Available for: iPhone 4s and later, iPod touch (5th generation) and later, iPad 2 and later
Impact: An attacker with a privileged network position may be able to intercept network traffic
Description: An intermediate certificate was incorrectly issued by the certificate authority CNNIC.
This issue was addressed through the addition of a mechanism to trust only a subset of certificates issued prior to the mis-issuance of the intermediate.
Further details are available about the security partial trust allow list.
Certificate Trust Policy
Available for: iPhone 4s and later, iPod touch (5th generation) and later, iPad 2 and later
Impact: Update to the certificate trust policy
Description: The certificate trust policy was updated.
The complete list of certificates may be viewed at the iOS Trust Store.
CFNetwork HTTPAuthentication
Available for: iPhone 4s and later, iPod touch (5th generation) and later, iPad 2 and later
Impact: Following a maliciously crafted URL may lead to arbitrary code execution
Description: A memory corruption issue existed in handling of certain URL credentials.
This issue was addressed with improved memory handling.
CVE-ID
CVE-2015-3684 : Apple
CoreGraphics
Available for: iPhone 4s and later, iPod touch (5th generation) and later, iPad 2 and later
Impact: Opening a maliciously crafted PDF file may lead to an unexpected application termination or arbitrary code execution
Description: Multiple memory corruption issues existed in the handling of ICC profiles.
These issues were addressed through improved memory handling.
CVE-ID
CVE-2015-3723 : chaithanya (SegFault) working with HP's Zero Day Initiative
CVE-2015-3724 : WanderingGlitch of HP's Zero Day Initiative
CoreText
Available for: iPhone 4s and later, iPod touch (5th generation) and later, iPad 2 and later
Impact: Processing a maliciously crafted text file may lead to an unexpected application termination or arbitrary code execution
Description: Multiple memory corruption issues existed in the processing of text files.
These issues were addressed through improved bounds checking.
CVE-ID
CVE-2015-1157
CVE-2015-3685 : Apple
CVE-2015-3686 : John Villamil (@day6reak), Yahoo Pentest Team
CVE-2015-3687 : John Villamil (@day6reak), Yahoo Pentest Team
CVE-2015-3688 : John Villamil (@day6reak), Yahoo Pentest Team
CVE-2015-3689 : Apple
coreTLS
Available for: iPhone 4s and later, iPod touch (5th generation) and later, iPad 2 and later
Impact: An attacker with a privileged network position may intercept SSL/TLS connections
Description: coreTLS accepted short ephemeral Diffie-Hellman (DH) keys, as used in export-strength ephemeral DH cipher suites.
This issue, also known as Logjam, allowed an attacker with a privileged network position to downgrade security to 512-bit DH if the server supported an export-strength ephemeral DH cipher suite.
The issue was addressed by increasing the default minimum size allowed for DH ephemeral keys to 768 bits.
CVE-ID
CVE-2015-4000 : The weakdh team at weakdh.org, Hanno Boeck
DiskImages
Available for: iPhone 4s and later, iPod touch (5th generation) and later, iPad 2 and later
Impact: A malicious application may be able to determine kernel memory layout
Description: An information disclosure issue existed in the processing of disk images.
This issue was addressed through improved memory management.
CVE-ID
CVE-2015-3690 : Peter Rutenbar working with HP's Zero Day Initiative
FontParser
Available for: iPhone 4s and later, iPod touch (5th generation) and later, iPad 2 and later
Impact: Processing a maliciously crafted font file may lead to an unexpected application termination or arbitrary code execution
Description: Multiple memory corruption issues existed in the processing of font files.
These issues were addressed through improved input validation.
CVE-ID
CVE-2015-3694 : John Villamil (@day6reak), Yahoo Pentest Team
CVE-2015-3719 : John Villamil (@day6reak), Yahoo Pentest Team
ImageIO
Available for: iPhone 4s and later, iPod touch (5th generation) and later, iPad 2 and later
Impact: Processing a maliciously crafted .tiff file may lead to an unexpected application termination or arbitrary code execution
Description: A memory corruption issue existed in the processing of .tiff files.
This issue was addressed with improved bounds checking.
CVE-ID
CVE-2015-3703 : Apple
ImageIO
Available for: iPhone 4s and later, iPod touch (5th generation) and later, iPad 2 and later
Impact: Multiple vulnerabilities exist in libtiff, the most serious of which may lead to arbitrary code execution
Description: Multiple vulnerabilities existed in libtiff versions prior to 4.0.4. They were addressed by updating libtiff to version 4.0.4.
CVE-ID
CVE-2014-8127
CVE-2014-8128
CVE-2014-8129
CVE-2014-8130
Kernel
Available for: iPhone 4s and later, iPod touch (5th generation) and later, iPad 2 and later
Impact: A malicious application may be able to determine kernel memory layout
Description: A memory management issue existed in the handling of HFS parameters which could have led to the disclosure of kernel memory layout.
This issue was addressed through improved memory management.
CVE-ID
CVE-2015-3721 : Ian Beer of Google Project Zero
Mail
Available for: iPhone 4s and later, iPod touch (5th generation) and later, iPad 2 and later
Impact: A maliciously crafted email can replace the message content with an arbitrary webpage when the message is viewed
Description: An issue existed in the support for HTML email which allowed message content to be refreshed with an arbitrary webpage.
The issue was addressed through restricted support for HTML content.
CVE-ID
CVE-2015-3710 : Aaron Sigel of vtty.com, Jan Souček
MobileInstallation
Available for: iPhone 4s and later, iPod touch (5th generation) and later, iPad 2 and later
Impact: A malicious universal provisioning profile app can prevent a Watch app from launching
Description: An issue existed in the install logic for universal provisioning profile apps on the Watch which allowed a collision to occur with existing bundle IDs.
This issue was addressed through improved collision checking.
CVE-ID
CVE-2015-3725 : Zhaofeng Chen, Hui Xue, and Tao (Lenx) Wei from FireEye, Inc.
Safari
Available for: iPhone 4s and later, iPod touch (5th generation) and later, iPad 2 and later
Impact: Visiting a maliciously crafted website may compromise user information on the filesystem
Description: A state management issue existed in Safari that allowed unprivileged origins to access contents on the filesystem.
This issue was addressed through improved state management.
CVE-ID
CVE-2015-1155 : Joe Vennix of Rapid7 Inc.
working with HP's Zero Day Initiative
Safari
Available for: iPhone 4s and later, iPod touch (5th generation) and later, iPad 2 and later
Impact: Visiting a maliciously crafted website may lead to account takeover
Description: An issue existed where Safari would preserve the Origin request header forcross-origin redirects, allowing malicious websites to circumvent CSRF protections.
The issue was addressed through improved handling of redirects.
CVE-ID
CVE-2015-3658 : Brad Hill of Facebook
Security
Available for: iPhone 4s and later, iPod touch (5th generation) and later, iPad 2 and later
Impact: A remote attacker may cause an unexpected application termination or arbitrary code execution
Description: An integer overflow existed in the Security framework code for parsing S/MIME e-mail and some other signed or encrypted objects.
This issue was addressed through improved validity checking.
CVE-ID
CVE-2013-1741
SQLite
Available for: iPhone 4s and later, iPod touch (5th generation) and later, iPad 2 and later
Impact: A remote attacker may cause an unexpected application termination or arbitrary code execution
Description: Multiple buffer overflows existed in SQLite's printf implementation.
These issues were addressed through improved bounds checking.
CVE-ID
CVE-2015-3717 : Peter Rutenbar working with HP's Zero Day Initiative
SQLite
Available for: iPhone 4s and later, iPod touch (5th generation) and later, iPad 2 and later
Impact: A maliciously crafted SQL command may allow unexpected application termination or arbitrary code execution
Description: An API issue existed in SQLite functionality.
This was addressed through improved restrictions.
CVE-ID
CVE-2015-7036 : Peter Rutenbar working with HP's Zero Day Initiative
Telephony
Available for: iPhone 4s and later, iPod touch (5th generation) and later, iPad 2 and later
Impact: Maliciously crafted SIM cards may lead to arbitrary code execution
Description: Multiple input validation issues existed in the parsing of SIM/UIM payloads.
These issues were addressed through improved payload validation.
CVE-ID
CVE-2015-3726 : Matt Spisak of Endgame
WebKit
Available for: iPhone 4s and later, iPod touch (5th generation) and later, iPad 2 and later
Impact: Visiting a malicious website by clicking a link may lead to user interface spoofing
Description: An issue existed in the handling of the rel attribute in anchor elements.
Target objects could get unauthorized access to link objects.
This issue was addressed through improved link type adherence.
CVE-ID
CVE-2015-1156 : Zachary Durber of Moodle
WebKit
Available for: iPhone 4s and later, iPod touch (5th generation) and later, iPad 2 and later
Impact: Visiting a maliciously crafted website may lead to an unexpected application termination or arbitrary code execution
Description: Multiple memory corruption issues existed in WebKit.
These issues were addressed through improved memory handling.
CVE-ID
CVE-2015-1152 : Apple
CVE-2015-1153 : Apple
WebKit
Available for: iPhone 4s and later, iPod touch (5th generation) and later, iPad 2 and later
Impact: Visiting a maliciously crafted webpage may lead to an unexpected application termination or arbitrary code execution
Description: An insufficient comparison issue existed in SQLite authorizer which allowed invocation of arbitrary SQL functions.
This issue was addressed with improved authorization checks.
CVE-ID
CVE-2015-3659 : Peter Rutenbar working with HP's Zero Day Initiative
WebKit
Available for: iPhone 4s and later, iPod touch (5th generation) and later, iPad 2 and later
Impact: A maliciously crafted website can access the WebSQL databases of other websites
Description: An issue existed in the authorization checks for renaming WebSQL tables which could have allowed a maliciously crafted website to access databases belonging to other websites.
This was addressed through improved authorization checks.
CVE-ID
CVE-2015-3727 : Peter Rutenbar working with HP's Zero Day Initiative
Wi-Fi Connectivity
Available for: iPhone 4s and later, iPod touch (5th generation) and later, iPad 2 and later
Impact: iOS devices may auto-associate with untrusted access points advertising a known ESSID but with a downgraded security type
Description: An insufficient comparison issue existed in Wi-Fi manager's evaluation of known access point advertisements.
This issue was addressed through improved matching of security parameters.
CVE-ID
CVE-2015-3728 : Brian W. Gray of Carnegie Mellon University, Craig Young from TripWire
Import photos using Apple camera adapters
Learn how to import photos and videos from a digital camera or SD Card to your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch using Apple camera adapters.
You can import photos and videos from an SD card, digital camera, or other supported accessory to your iOS device using one of these:
Lightning to SD Card Camera Reader
Lightning to USB 3 Camera Adapter
Lightning to USB Camera Adapter
Apple USB-C to SD Card Reader
If you have an iPhone 5 or later, it needs iOS 9.2 or later.
If you have an iPod touch or iPhone 4s, it needs iOS 9.3.
If you're using a Lightning to USB 3 Camera Adapter, you need an iPad with iOS 9.3.
Import photos and videos
To import from your SD card or digital camera, follow these steps:
Connect the adapter to your iOS device.
Connect your digital camera to the adapter by USB or insert an SD card.
Photos should automatically open to the Import tab.
If it doesn't, open Photos and tap Import.
Tap Import All to import your content, or tap specific items, then tap Import.
When the import is complete, you might be asked to Keep or Delete the media on the camera or SD card.
You can import content only to your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch.
You can't export content to an SD card or digital camera.
If you don’t see the import option
If you don't see the Import tab, follow these steps:
Make sure that your digital camera is on and in the correct mode to export images.
Disconnect the adapter, wait 30 seconds, then reconnect it.
Unplug the digital camera or SD card, wait 30 seconds, then reconnect.
Restart your iOS device and turn your camera off and back on.
If one is available, test with a different digital camera or SD card.
If you can import media with a different digital camera or SD card, there might be an issue with the data on the camera or SD card.
Try to import the data to another device or computer, then use your digital camera to format—or reset—the SD card.
Reformatting will erase all the images on the SD card.
Check the manual for your digital camera for more help.
If you can’t import some content
Apple camera adapters can import multiple types of media files from your digital camera or SD card.
If the format isn't compatible with iOS, you won’t be able to view them on your device, but can import them to your computer later.
Apple camera adapters can import only content that was captured by digital cameras.
You might not be able to import content that was renamed, edited, or copied to the digital camera or SD card.
Supported SD cards and image-transfer protocols
Picture Transfer Protocol (PTP)
Mass Storage Device protocol
SDSC
SDHC
miniSD
microSD
MMC
SDXC
Flash or USB thumb drives aren't supported for image importing.
If you're using a Lightning to USB 3 Camera Adapter, these iPad models transfer data at USB 3 speeds:
iPad Pro 12.9-inch (2nd generation)
iPad Pro 10.5-inch
iPad Pro 12.9-inch
All other adapters and iOS devices use USB 2 speeds.
Learn more
Learn more about USB Camera Adapters.
Learn how to connect to other devices and accessories with the USB-C port.
Use your mobile phone number as your Apple ID
When you create a new Apple ID in some countries or regions, you can use your mobile phone number as your Apple ID username.
Here's how it works
Any time you set up an iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch, you have the option to sign in with your existing Apple ID or create a new account.
If you create a new Apple ID on an iPhone in iOS 11 or later, you can use your mobile phone number as your username in China mainland and India.
If you live in China mainland, use your (+86) mobile phone number.
If you live in India, use your (+91) number.
Depending on your carrier, you might also be able to create a new account with a phone number on some Android devices, smart TVs, and streaming devices.
-Just choose Create Your Apple ID from the Apple ID sign in screen and follow the instructions to create your new account.
Once your account is created, you can use it to sign in to any Apple device or service.
Whenever you sign in to a new device, app, or service, you’ll enter your mobile phone number—including the country code—and your password.
Be sure to use the same Apple ID everywhere you sign in so that your Apple devices and services work together seamlessly.
If you already have an Apple ID that's an email address, you might not be able to change it to a mobile phone number.
However, you can associate your account with different phone numbers or email addresses on your Apple ID account page.
What you need
Here's what you need to use your mobile phone number as your Apple ID to sign in:
iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch with iOS 11 or later
Mac with macOS High Sierra or later
Apple Watch with watchOS 4 or later
Apple TV with tvOS 11 or later
Apple.com, iCloud.com, and other Apple web properties*
Apple services on third-party devices
*Depending on how you created your Apple ID, you might be prompted to change your username from a phone number to an email address.
You might also need to provide additional information.
Account security
Depending on where you created your account and how much personal information is associated with it, account security requirements might vary.
When using an Apple device, it's best to use two-factor authentication.
In some cases, you might be prompted to review or upgrade your security when signing in on an Apple device or an Apple website.
Messages from Apple
Since there isn't an email address associated with a phone number-based Apple ID, communications from Apple come to you through Messages on your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch, and your Apple ID account page.
To make sure that you receive important account-related messages on your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch, sign in to iCloud, iMessage, and FaceTime with your phone number Apple ID.
If you sign in to iCloud on an iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch without a SIM card, you can't use FaceTime and iMessage.
You can always see your messages from Apple on your Apple ID account page.
Change your Apple ID to a different mobile phone number
Depending on the country or region that you live in and how you created your Apple ID, you might be able to change your Apple ID to a different mobile phone number from your Apple ID account page or on your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch.
In China mainland, your new Apple ID must be another (+86) mobile phone number.
In India, your new Apple ID must be another (+91) mobile phone number.
From your Apple ID account page
Sign out of every Apple service and device that uses your Apple ID.
Go to appleid.apple.com and sign in.
In the Account section, click Edit.
Under your Apple ID, click Change Apple ID.
After you enter the mobile phone number that you want to use as your Apple ID, a verification code is sent to you at that number.
Enter the verification code from the text into the fields provided.
Sign back in to all Apple services with your new Apple ID.
On your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch
Sign out of every Apple service and device that uses your Apple ID, except the one you're using to change your Apple ID.
Go to Settings > [your name] > Name, Phone Numbers, Email.
Next to Reachable At, tap Edit > Delete.
Tap Continue and follow the instructions.
After you enter the mobile phone number that you want to use as your Apple ID, a verification code is sent to you at that number.
Enter the verification code from the text into the fields provided.
Sign back in to all Apple services with your new Apple ID.
If your new mobile phone number is already connected to your Apple ID as an iMessage phone number, shared phone number, or trusted phone number, then you don't need to verify it.
Didn't get a code?
If you use iOS 11.3 or later on your iPhone, you might not need to enter a verification code.
In some cases, your trusted phone number can be automatically verified in the background on your iPhone.
It’s one less thing to do, and your account is still protected with two-factor authentication.
If you move to a different country or region
You can change your username to a new mobile phone number.
Make sure that the mobile phone number can be verified by SMS.
First, change your Apple ID country or region.
Then follow the steps to change your Apple ID to a new mobile phone number.
Set up and use Find My Friends
Use Find My Friends to easily locate your friends and family from your iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, Apple Watch, or on iCloud.com.
If you have iOS 13, iPadOS, or macOS Catalina, the Find My app combines Find My iPhone and Find My Friends into a single app.
Set up the Find My app and turn on Find My [device] to get started.
If your Apple Watch has watchOS 6, use the Find People app, which replaces the Find Friends app, to share your location with friends and family members.
Get started
Use iOS 8 through 12 with your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch.
Use watchOS 3 through 5 with your Apple Watch.
If it's not already on your device, you can download the Find My Friends app from the App Store.
Make sure that the web browser on your Mac or PC is up to date.
Set up Find My Friends
If your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch is using iOS 9 through 12, Find My Friends is automatically installed.
If your device is using a version of iOS 8, install the free Find My Friends app from the App Store.
When you sign in to iCloud on your device, you automatically sign in to Find My Friends with your Apple ID.
If you want to get Find My Friends notifications on your Apple Watch, go to the Apple Watch app on your iPhone.
Then go to the My Watch tab, tap Notifications, scroll down, tap Find Friends, and tap to turn on Mirror iPhone alerts.
If you're using watchOS 4 or 5, you can also turn notifications on from your Apple Watch. Go to Settings > General > Location Services.
Then turn on Share My Location.
You can also use Find My Friends on iCloud.com or with Family Sharing to share your location with your family.
Location sharing isn't supported in South Korea and might be unavailable in other regions due to local laws.
Add a friend
To use Find My Friends, make sure your friends have Find My Friends on their device too.
You can only add friends from Find My Friends on your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch.
Open Find My Friends.
Tap Add.
Choose a friend or enter their email address, then tap Send or Done to send the request.
After your friend agrees to share their location, you can see their location in a list or on a map in the Find My Friends app, or on iCloud.com.
If you want, you can choose which email address to use when sending requests to friends:
On your iPhone or iPod touch, tap Me > Send As.
On your iPad, tap List > Me > Info > Send As.
If you don't want to get friend requests:
On your iPhone or iPod touch, tap Me > turn off Allow Friend Requests under Invitations.
On your iPad, tap List > Me > turn off Allow Friend Requests under Invitations.
With the Find My Friends app on iCloud.com, you can only see your friends and their location or change settings for sharing your location.
-To add friends, you need to use an iOS device.
Hide your location
You can hide or stop sharing your location with your friends.
Just follow these steps:
Open Find My Friends and tap Me.
Then turn off Share My Location.
Tap Done.
You'll see Not sharing location next to Me at the bottom of the screen.
Stop sharing your location
If you don't want your friends to see your location in Find My Friends, you can stop sharing from the app on your iOS device or on iCloud.com.
You can still see the location of your friends, but your friends see Location Not Available when they try to locate you.
On your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch:
Go to Settings > [your name].
If you're using iOS 12, tap Share My Location.
If you're using an earlier version of iOS, tap iCloud > Share My Location.
Turn off Share My Location.
On iCloud.com:
Sign in to iCloud.com and open Find My Friends.
Select Me.
Deselect Share My Location.
Use Find My Friends on multiple devices
You can use Find My Friends on any iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, or Apple Watch that you own.
However, only one iOS device and any paired cellular Apple Watch can send your location to your followers.
You can change the device to the one you're currently using in Find My Friends:
On your iPhone or iPod touch, tap Me, then tap This Device under Share My Location From.
On your iPad, tap List > Me > Info, then tap This Device under Share My Location From.
Share My Location From only appears when you're currently signed in to Find My Friends, Find My, or Find People on multiple devices.
Send and accept location requests
Your friends can send you a request to follow your location.
If you accept someone's request, that person can then see your location.
If you want to see that person's location, you must invite them, and they must accept your invitation.
If you accept a request from a friend that you’re not following, a follow request is automatically sent to your friend.
Friends and followers limits
You can follow up to 100 friends.
Up to 100 friends can follow you.
Learn more
Your location is sent from your device only when someone requests to see it.
Your location isn't transmitted on a regular interval.
For more information, see the iCloud security and privacy overview.
Looking for Find My iPhone in iOS 13?
Locate your devices with the Find My app.
Looking for Find My Friends in iOS 13?
Share your location in the Find My app.
If the screen isn’t working on your iPhone or iPad
Learn what to do.
If your screen is too sensitive or responds intermittently to touch
Restart your device.
Make sure your screen is clean and free of any debris or water.
Disconnect any Lightning or USB-C accessories.
-If your screen works after removing an accessory, try using a different outlet, cable, or charger.
Remove any cases or screen protectors.
If part of your screen doesn't respond, responds intermittently, or responds even when it's not touched, contact Apple Support for your iPhone or iPad.
If your screen is cracked or shattered
If the screen is cracked or shattered on your iPhone.
If the screen is cracked or shattered on your iPad.
Connect and use your AirPods and AirPods Pro
You can listen to music, make phone calls, use Siri, and more with your AirPods.
Use your iPhone to set up your AirPods
If you're setting up your AirPods for the first time, make sure that your device is up to date.
Then follow these steps:
Go to the Home screen.
Open the case—with your AirPods inside—and hold it next to your iPhone.
A setup animation appears on your iPhone.
Tap Connect.
If you have AirPods Pro, read the next three screens.
If you have AirPods Pro or AirPods (2nd generation) and you already set up "Hey Siri" on your iPhone, then "Hey Siri" is ready to use with your AirPods.
If you haven't set up "Hey Siri" already and you have AirPods Pro or AirPods (2nd generation), you'll be guided through the setup.
Tap Done.
If you're signed in to iCloud, your AirPods are set up automatically with any of your supported devices that are signed in to iCloud with the same Apple ID.
If you can't set up your AirPods, get help.
Learn how to set up your AirPods with a Mac or a non-Apple device, like an Android phone.
Listen with your AirPods
When you take your AirPods out of the case, they're on and ready to use.
When you put them in your ears, your AirPods automatically play the audio from your device.
If you take an AirPod out, audio pauses.
Take them both out and audio stops.
If you're listening with one AirPod and you take it out, the AirPod pauses.
If you put it back in your ear within 15 seconds, play resumes automatically.
Learn how to get a customized and comfortable fit by choosing the best-sized ear tips for your AirPods Pro.
AirPods are connected to your iPhone and Apple Watch at the same time.
Sound automatically switches between them.
When not using AirPods or AirPods Pro, store them in the charging case.
Storing AirPods loose in your pocket or bag can result in damage.
Follow these steps to use your AirPods to play audio from a different device or to switch the audio to different headphones or speakers.
On your iOS device
Open Control Center.
Touch and hold the audio card in the upper-right corner of Control Center to control audio.
Tap , then choose the device you want from the list.1
On your Mac
Click the volume control  in the menu bar and choose your AirPods Pro2 or other speakers under Output Device.
Control audio with your AirPods Pro
To play and pause your audio content, press the force sensor on the stem of an AirPod.
To resume playback, press again.
To skip forward, double-press the force sensor on the stem of an AirPod.
To skip back, triple-press the force sensor.
To change the volume, say "Hey, Siri," then say something like "Turn down the volume."
Or drag the volume slider in the app you're listening to, on the Lock screen, or in Control Center.
You can also open Now Playing on your Apple Watch and turn the Digital Crown to adjust volume.
AirPods Pro let you control how much you hear your surroundings.
Press and hold the force sensor to switch between Active Noise Cancellation and Transparency mode.
You can select which modes the press-and-hold action switches between in Settings > Bluetooth > AirPods Pro > Press and Hold AirPods.
Control audio with your AirPods (1st or 2nd generation)
You can use your AirPods to use Siri and to control the playback of audio content.
With AirPods (2nd generation), by default, you use Siri by saying "Hey Siri".
And when you double-tap an AirPod, you either play audio or skip forward.
With AirPods (1st generation), by default, you double-tap to use Siri.
Regardless of which model of AirPods you have, you can set each AirPod to do one of these when you double-tap it:
Use Siri3
Play and pause your audio content
Skip to the next track
Go back to the previous track
Learn how to choose what you want each AirPod to do when you double-tap it.
Use Siri
With AirPods Pro and AirPods (2nd generation), you can say "Hey Siri."
With AirPods Pro, you can set an AirPod to use Siri when you touch and hold the force sensor.
With AirPods (1st and 2nd generation), you can double-tap to use Siri.
You can use Siri with your AirPods to ask questions and make phone calls.
Siri can also control your music and check on your AirPods.
Here are some examples of Siri requests:
"Play my Favorites playlist."
"Turn up the volume."
"How do I get home from here?"
"Skip to the next song."
"Pause music."
"How is the battery on my AirPods?"
Find more Siri examples.
Use the phone and get messages
When a call comes in while you're wearing either AirPod, Siri can announce the call.
To answer with AirPods Pro, press the force sensor.
To answer with AirPods (1st or 2nd generation), double-tap an AirPod.
Later, you can press the force sensor on an AirPod Pro or double-tap an AirPod to hang up or switch to another call.
Siri can read your incoming messages through your AirPods Pro.
Charge your AirPods and case
To charge your AirPods, put them in the case and close the lid.
4 AirPods shut down and charge whenever they're in the case.
You can charge your AirPods Pro in their wireless charging case with a Qi-certified charger.
While the case is charging wirelessly, you can tap the status light to see the charge status.
A green light means that the case—and AirPods, if they're inside—is charged more than 80 percent.
You can also plug the case in to an Apple Lightning to USB cable—either USB-C or USB A.
You can charge your AirPods (1st or 2nd generation) in the Wireless Charging Case or AirPods Charging Case.
If you have the Wireless Charging Case, you can charge wirelessly with a Qi-certified charger.
You can charge either case by plugging it in to an Apple Lightning to USB cable.
Learn more about charging.
What you need
If you have AirPods Pro, you need at least one of these:
iPhone or iPod touch with iOS 13.2 or later
iPad with iPadOS 13.2 or later
Apple Watch with watchOS 6.1 or later
Apple TV with tvOS 13.2 or later
Mac with macOS 10.15.1 or later
If you have AirPods (2nd generation), you need at least one of these:
iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch with iOS 12.2 or later
Apple Watch with watchOS 5.2 or later
Apple TV with tvOS 12.2 or later
Mac with macOS 10.14.4 or later
If you have AirPods (1st generation), you need at least one of these:
iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch with iOS 10 or later
Apple Watch with watchOS 3 or later
Apple TV with tvOS 11 or later
Mac with macOS Sierra or later
AirPods appear only when they're nearby and ready to use.
If you don't see the volume control in the menu bar, learn how to add it.
If double-tapping to use Siri doesn't work, go to Settings > Siri & Search and make sure that Allow Siri When Locked is on.
If you have both AirPods (2nd generation) and AirPods (1st generation), make sure that you keep them separate.
Your AirPods won't charge if you put one of each model in a charging case.
Re-download GarageBand Learn to Play Artist Lessons
Learn how to resume interrupted or re-download previously purchased Learn to Play Artist Lessons.
If you’ve started to download Learn to Play Artist Lessons and the download is interrupted or is incomplete, you can resume the download from the Lesson Store in GarageBand.
You can also download previously downloaded Artist Lessons from the Apple Store (but not from the Lesson Store in GarageBand).
Resume an interrupted Learn to Play Artist Lesson download
Check your network connection.
Your network connection must be active for the download to complete.
Quit and reopen GarageBand.
If GarageBand is already closed, click its icon to open it.
An alert appears indicating that the download will resume.
If GarageBand is open but the Project Chooser isn’t visible, choose File > New to open it.
In the Project Chooser, click “Learn to Play,” and then click the arrow in the lower-right corner to resume the download.
If you’re still unable to complete the download, visit the GarageBand Learn to Play section of the Apple Software page for information and instructions on how to re-download your lesson.
Download a purchased Learn to Play Artist Lesson again later
Log in to your Apple Store account and view your order history.
Click any lesson to download it again.
Contact Apple Support
If you’re having trouble purchasing Learn to Play Artist Lessons, contact Apple Support.
If you're having trouble downloading Learn to Play Artist Lessons from your Apple Store order history, see Apple Software Shopping Help.
Change your iCloud feature settings
You can change which iCloud features you’re using on any of your devices by turning features on or off.
You can also turn off iCloud completely.
When you turn off an iCloud feature on a device, information stored only in iCloud for that feature is no longer available on the device.
If you turn off Mail, Contacts, Calendars, Notes, Reminders, or iCloud Photos on just one device, you can still view and change your information on iCloud.com and on another device you set up for that feature.
Sometimes when you turn off an iCloud feature on a device, you can choose to keep a copy of the feature’s information on that device.
The copied information isn’t kept in sync with iCloud.
If you turn off Mail, Contacts, Calendars, and Tasks in iCloud for Windows on a Windows computer, information stored in iCloud remains available in Microsoft Outlook, but it isn’t kept up to date with your other devices.
Before you turn off a particular feature on all of your devices, or before turning off iCloud completely, you can make a copy of the information you keep in iCloud on your computer.
If you want to delete information and backups stored in iCloud, learn how to manage your iCloud storage.
Turn iCloud features on or off
Depending on which device settings you want to change, do one or more of the following.
On your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch
If you're using iOS 10.3 or later:
Go to Settings > [your name].
Tap iCloud.
Tap to turn iCloud features on or off.
On your Mac
Choose Apple  menu > System Preferences, then click Apple ID.
If you’re using macOS Mojave or earlier, you don’t need to click Apple ID.
Click iCloud.
Select or deselect each feature.
Some features aren’t available or are listed differently in earlier macOS versions.
On your Windows PC
Open iCloud for Windows.
Select or deselect each feature.
Click Apply.
Some features aren’t available on your PC, or are listed differently, depending on whether your computer has Microsoft Outlook 2016 or earlier installed.
If you have Outlook installed, use iCloud Mail, Contacts, Calendars, and Tasks in Outlook.
If you turn off Mail, Contacts, Calendars, and Tasks, the iCloud information remains available in Microsoft Outlook, but it isn’t kept up to date with iCloud.
If you don't have Outlook installed, use iCloud Mail, Contacts, Calendars, and Reminders in your web browser on iCloud.com.
iCloud reminders are called Tasks in Outlook 2016.
If you select Bookmarks, and your computer has Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox installed, you can click Options to select the Windows browsers whose bookmarks you want to keep up to date with bookmarks in Safari on your iOS devices and Mac computers set up for iCloud Safari.
Learn more about the browsers supported by iCloud for Windows.
Turn off iCloud
To stop using iCloud on all or only some of your devices, follow these steps.
If you sign out of iCloud (or delete iCloud), iCloud no longer backs up the information on your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch.
-You can still back up your device from your computer.
If you turned on automatic download of music, app, or book purchases in iTunes preferences or in Settings on your iOS device, your iTunes purchases are still downloaded to your devices.
If your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch is lost or stolen
If you lose your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch or think it might be stolen, these steps might help you find it and protect your information.
If Find My [device] is enabled on your missing device
You can use the Find My app to find your device, take additional actions to help you recover it, and keep your information safe.
Sign in to iCloud.com/find on the web or use the Find My app on another Apple device.
Find your device.
Open the Find My app or go to iCloud.com and click Find iPhone.
Select a device to view its location on a map.
If the device is nearby, you can have it play a sound to help you or someone nearby find it.
Mark As Lost.
This will remotely lock your device with a passcode and you can display a custom message with your phone number on your missing device's Lock screen.
It will also keep track of your device's location.
If you added credit, debit, or prepaid cards to Apple Pay, the ability to make payments using Apple Pay on the device is suspended when you put your device in Lost Mode.
Report your lost or stolen device to local law enforcement.
Law enforcement might request the serial number of your device.
Find your device serial number.
If your missing device is covered by AppleCare+ with Theft and Loss, you can file a claim for your lost or stolen iPhone.
Skip to step 7 below.
Erase your device.
To prevent anyone else from accessing the data on your missing device, you can erase it remotely.
When you erase your device, all of your information (including credit, debit, or prepaid cards for Apple Pay) is deleted from the device, and you won't be able to find it using the Find My app or Find iPhone on iCloud.com.
After you erase a device, you can't track it.
If you remove the device from your account after you erase it, Activation Lock will be turned off.
This allows another person to turn on and use your device.
Report your lost or stolen device to your wireless carrier, so they can disable your account to prevent calls, texts, and data use.
Your device might be covered under your wireless carrier plan.
Remove your lost or stolen device from your list of trusted devices.
If you use Family Sharing, any family member can help locate another member’s missing device.
Just have your family member sign in to iCloud with their Apple ID, and you can find any device that you or your family members use with Family Sharing.
If Find My [device] isn't turned on on your missing device
If you didn't turn on Find My [device] before your device was lost or stolen, it can't be used to locate your device.
But you can use these steps to help protect your data:
Change your Apple ID password.
By changing your Apple ID password, you can prevent anyone from accessing your iCloud data or using other services (such as iMessage or iTunes) from your missing device.
Change the passwords for other internet accounts on your device.
This can include email accounts, Facebook, or Twitter.
Report your lost or stolen device to local law enforcement.
Law enforcement might request the serial number of your device.
Find your device serial number.
Report your lost or stolen device to your wireless carrier.
Your carrier can disable the account, preventing phone calls, texts, and data use.
Remove your lost or stolen device from your list of trusted devices.
Find My [device] is the only way that you can track or locate a lost or missing device.
If Find My [device] isn't enabled on your device before it goes missing, there's no other Apple service that can find, track, or flag your device for you.
Learn more
See how to set up and use the Find My app.
Learn what to do if your Apple Watch is lost or stolen, or if your Mac is lost or stolen.
Get help if your AirPods are missing.
Turn off Activation Lock on an iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch.
See what friends are listening to in Apple Music
With Apple Music, you can share what you're listening to with friends and see what they're listening to.
Set up
a profile
Find and follow
friends
See what friends
are listening to
Control what
you share
Stop
sharing
Report
a concern
To start sharing, set up a profile
Follow the steps below for your device.
On your iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, or Android device
Open the Music app and tap For You at the bottom of your screen.
In the upper-right corner of your screen, tap your photo.
Tap See What Friends Are Listening To.
Follow the onscreen prompts to create a username, find and follow friends, share playlists, and more.
Tap Done.
Your shared playlists and the songs that you listen to will appear on your profile page.
On your Mac or PC
On your Mac, open the Music app.
On your PC, open iTunes for Windows.
In the sidebar, click For You.
In the upper-right corner of your screen, click your photo.
In the window that appears, click Get Started.
Follow the onscreen prompts to create a username, find and follow friends, share playlists, and more.
Click Done.
Your shared playlists and the songs that you listen to will appear on your profile page.
Find and follow friends
Go to For You.
On your iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, or Android device, tap your photo in the upper-right corner, then tap View Profile.
On your Mac or PC, click your photo in the upper-right corner.
Scroll to the bottom of your profile.
Tap Follow Friends or click Find More Friends.
From here you can follow friends in your contacts list, search for friends who use Apple Music, and more.
You can also tap or click INVITE to have others follow your profile.
To unfollow someone or block a follower, tap or click the person, tap or click the more button , then choose Unfollow or Block.
Sharing music with friends isn't available for Child accounts that are part of Family Sharing.
See what your friends are listening to
Go to For You, then scroll down to Friends Are Listening To.
To play music that your friend is listening to, just tap or click their music.
To listen to a mix of songs that your friends are listening to, tap Friends Mix.
To see a specific friend's profile page, go to your profile, then tap or click their photo under Followers or Following.
From here, you can see their shared playlists and what they've been listening to lately.
If you don't see a Friends Mix, you might need to follow more people.
Control what you share
Go to For You.
On your iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, or Android device, tap your photo in the upper-right corner, then tap View Profile.
On your Mac or PC, click your photo in the upper-right corner.
On your profile page, tap or click Edit. From here you can:
Choose who can see what you're listening to.
Hide what you're listening to and make playlists private.
Hide music that you're listening to
On your profile page, look under Listening To, find music that you want to hide, then follow the steps below for your device:
On your iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, or Android device, press and hold an album, then tap Hide from Profile.
On your Mac or PC, control-click or right-click an album, then choose Hide from Listening To.
Make playlists private
On your iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, or Android device, go to Library > Playlists and tap a playlist to open it.
In the upper-right corner, tap Edit, then turn off Show on My Profile and in Search.
On your Mac or PC, go to the sidebar and click the playlist to open it.
Under the playlist's title, see if there's a checkmark next to Publish on profile and in search.
If there is, deselect it to make the playlist private.
Stop sharing
If you make your activity and playlists private, your profile picture and user name will still be visible in Search.
To remove yourself entirely, delete your Apple Music profile:
On your iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, or Android device, go to For You, tap your photo, tap your name, then tap Edit.
Scroll to the bottom of the screen and tap Delete Profile.
On your Mac or PC, go to For You, click your photo, then click Edit.
Below your user name, click Delete Profile.
When you delete your profile, your user handle and music activity clear from Apple Music, but your Apple Music subscription isn't affected.
If you shared a playlist with a friend and they saved it to their device, the playlist disappears.
Your library and playlists don't change.
Report a concern
If you see something offensive on a user's profile or in an user-created playlist, you can report it to Apple and we'll investigate the issue.
You can report a concern with any content that an Apple Music user uploads or shares.
Items that you can report include:
Playlist names
Playlist images
Playlist descriptions
User names
User images
User handles (for example, @johnappleseed)
To report an offensive name or image:
Go to the user's page or playlist's page.
On your iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, Mac, or PC, tap or click the more button .
On your Android device, tap .
Choose Report a Concern.
Learn more
Learn how to use Apple Music's other features.
Learn how to create playlists that you can share with others without sharing your listening history.
Sharing music with friends isn't available in Russia, China mainland, and Turkey.
About Apple TV (2nd and 3rd generation) software updates
Learn about features in Apple TV (2nd and 3rd generation) software updates.
Find out which model you have or get the latest software.
Learn about updates for Apple TV HD.
Software updates for Apple TV (3rd generation)
Learn about updates for your Apple TV (3rd generation).
What's new in Apple TV Software Update 7.5
This update includes general performance and stability improvements and this feature:
Control your Apple TV from Control Center: You can now control your Apple TV (3rd generation) from Control Center on all of your iOS and iPadOS devices.
Apple TV Software Update 7.4
This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 7.3.1
This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 7.3
This update includes general performance and stability improvements and this feature:
Apple TV app: Now available on Apple TV (3rd generation), the Apple TV app gives you one place to watch all of your favorite shows and movies across all of your devices.
Subscribe to just the Apple TV channels you want.
Browse thousands of titles from the iTunes Store that you can buy or rent.
And get recommendations for shows and movies based on everything you watch.
Apple TV Software Update 7.2.2
This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 7.2.1
This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 7.2
This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 7.1
This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 7.0.3
This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 7.0.2
This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 7.0.1
This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 7.0
Refreshed user experience: Get a fresh new look for Apple TV.
Family Sharing: Play your family’s purchases.
Ask to Buy: Make sure that children get permission before they buy items from iTunes.
Descriptive Video Services: Hear descriptive video with a new accessibility feature coming to select iTunes movies and TV shows later this year.
Peer-to-peer AirPlay: Your guests can AirPlay from their Mac or iOS device directly to your Apple TV (model A1469 or later) without connecting to your wireless network.
Beats Music: Listen to music that's always right for you.
Software updates for Apple TV (2nd generation)
Learn about updates for your Apple TV (2nd generation).
Apple TV Software Update 6.2.1
This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
Previous software updates for Apple TV (2nd and 3rd generation)
Learn about earlier updates.
Apple TV Software Update 6.2
General updates: This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
iTunes Extras: Explore deleted scenes, photos, cast and crew, and more with select iTunes movie purchases.
iTunes Extras are available for HD purchases only.
Apple TV Software Update 6.1.1
This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 6.1
Main menu: Customize your Apple TV by hiding items from the main menu.
AirPlay: This update adds a security option to require that iOS devices or Macs be verified with a one-time, onscreen code before using AirPlay (requires iOS 7.1 or later on an iOS device, or OS X 10.9.2 or later on a Mac).
This update also adds support to allow an AirPlay device to discover Apple TV over Bluetooth in environments where multicast or Bonjour traffic is blocked on the network or the AirPlay device is on a different subnet (requires iOS 7.1 or later on iPhone 4s or later, iPad (3rd generation or later), iPad mini (1st or 2nd generation), or iPod touch (5th generation) and Apple TV (3rd generation)).
Remote app: View your purchased TV shows and movies in the Remote app and tap to play them instantly on Apple TV.
Create and play iTunes Radio stations (requires Remote app version 4.2 or later).
General updates: This update includes improvements for software update, subtitles, and general performance.
Apple TV Software Update 6.0.2
This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 6.0.1
This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 6.0
iTunes Radio: Create your own radio stations and listen to them ad-free with iTunes Match (Available only in the United States).
iTunes Music Store: Browse, purchase, and play music directly from the iTunes Music Store.
iCloud Photos: New support lets you play video from a shared photo stream and view photo streams from multiple contributors.
AirPlay from iCloud: Apple TV can play content from iTunes in the Cloud instead of your AirPlay device when possible.
You need iOS 7 on your AirPlay device.
Podcasts: Sync your podcasts and podcast stations across Apple TV and all your iOS devices.
iMovie Theater: Stream your iMovie creations instantly in high definition from iCloud.
You need to sign in to iCloud and get the latest version of iMovie for iOS or Mac.
Subtitles and Captioning: This update adds automatic subtitle selection based on Apple TV language setting and the ability to customize closed-caption style.
Conference Room Display: Lock Apple TV into Conference Room Display (for business and education environments) and show onscreen instructions for how to use AirPlay.
Software Update: Keep your Apple TV up-to-date with automatic installation of available software updates.
Setup: Use an iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch with iOS 7 to automatically transfer network settings, your Apple ID, and language preferences to Apple TV (3rd generation).
This isn't available for iPhone 4 and iPad 2.
Apple TV Software Update 5.3
Third-party content: This update adds support for HBO GO, ESPN, Sky News, Qello, and Crunchyroll.
iTunes Store: This update also improves reliability of signing in to the iTunes Store and playing purchased content.
Apple TV Software Update 5.2.1
iTunes in the Cloud: Now there is support for Music in the Cloud in Japan and Israel.
General updates: This update includes improvements for software update, subtitles, and general performance.
Apple TV Software Update 5.2
iTunes in the Cloud: Browse and play your purchased iTunes music directly from iCloud.
This feature might not be available in all countries or regions.
Bluetooth keyboard: Use your Apple Wireless Keyboard to control your Apple TV.
AirPlay audio for videos: Send stereo audio from movies, TV shows, and other videos on Apple TV to AirPlay-enabled speakers and devices (including AirPort Express and other Apple TVs).
General updates: This update also includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 5.1.1
iTunes Up Next: This update adds support for Up Next with iTunes 11 or iTunes Match.
See upcoming songs when you play music on your Apple TV.
Add new songs and edit what's queued with your Remote or your Remote app.
General updates: This update also includes performance and stability improvements for iTunes Store, AirPlay, Netflix, iTunes Match, and wired Ethernet connections.
Apple TV Software Update 5.1
Shared Photo Streams: Accept invitations for Shared Photo Streams, browse photos and comments, and receive notifications of new content.
AirPlay: Send audio content from Apple TV to AirPlay-enabled speakers and devices (including AirPort Express and other Apple TVs).
You can also require an onscreen code to use AirPlay with your Apple TV.
iTunes account switching: Sign in to iTunes with multiple Apple IDs and switch quickly between them.
Trailers: Search movie trailers.
In the United States and see show times for local theaters.
Screen savers: This update includes new Cascade, Shrinking Tiles, and Sliding Panels screen savers.
Main menu: Reorder icons on the second page by holding down the select button on the remote.
Subtitles: This update adds SDH support for the deaf and hard-of-hearing as well as improvements to viewing and selecting subtitles.
Network configuration: This update adds support for setting up advanced network options using configuration profiles.
General updates: This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 5.0.2
Parental Controls: This update addresses an issue which caused content restrictions to be incorrectly applied for the iTunes Store in Australia.
Apple TV Software Update 5.0.1
iTunes previews: Previews for movies and TV shows from the iTunes Store can now be viewed in HD.
AirPlay: This update fixes an issue that caused some iOS apps to have issues connecting through AirPlay.
Home Sharing: This update improves the reliability of Home Sharing connections.
Netflix: This update addresses an issue affecting Netflix login and navigation.
General updates: This update also includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 5.0
New interface: This update adds fast visual access to all content choices.
Movie purchases in iCloud: This update includes support for buying movies on Apple TV and playing back purchased movies from iCloud.
Genius Recommendations: This update adds recommendations for content on the iTunes Store based on previous rentals and purchases.
Screensaver photos: Enjoy a new, built-in screensaver of National Geographic photos.
On-device sign-up: This update adds on-device sign up for content partners on Apple TV using your Apple ID.
Apple TV Software Update 4.4.4
This update includes general performance and stability improvements, including a fix for an issue that displayed an error when playing some video content.
Apple TV Software Update 4.4.3
Netflix: This update adds support for Netflix in Mexico.
Audio output: This update addresses the issue where audio doesn't play through the optical port when the TV is turned off.
Apple TV Software Update 4.4.2
This update addresses an issue that required a small number of Apple TV units to be connected to iTunes in order to complete the update.
Apple TV Software Update 4.4
Photo Stream: View photos recently taken on your iOS device and pushed to your Photo Stream in iCloud.
AirPlay Mirroring: Wirelessly stream what's on your iPhone 4S or iPad 2 screen to your HDTV.
National Hockey League:* Watch live games and view highlights, scores, and more.
Wall Street Journal: Watch up-to-date news, business commentary, and financial analysis from leading experts.
New Slideshow themes: Enjoy your photos on your HDTV with new slideshow themes including Photo Wall, Flip-up, and Shifting Tiles.
Netflix: This update adds support for subtitles when available.
Live and on-demand games require a NHL subscription. Blackouts apply.
Apple TV Software Update 4.3
TV show purchases: Purchase TV shows on Apple TV.
Shows purchased on Apple TV can be redownloaded on other iOS devices.
Shows purchased on other iOS devices or with iTunes automatically show up as available to play on Apple TV.
Features might be limited by region.
Vimeo: Browse and watch millions of user-uploaded videos found on the Vimeo service for free.
Apple TV Software Update 4.2.2
Audio: This update addresses an issue in which audio is not output when playing some video content.
Video playback: This update addresses an issue in which video is not displayed when playing some content.
Audio output setting: This update adds an audio output setting for switching to 16-bit audio for compatibility with some TVs and AV receivers.
Live FF/RW improvements: This update improves the performance of fast-forwarding and rewinding live events.
Movie description: This update addresses an issue in which the description information is not displayed for some movies.
YouTube video order: This update addresses an issue in which YouTube subscription videos were not ordered by date.
Apple TV Software Update 4.2.1
TV compatibility: This update addresses issues that may cause the screen to flicker or display incorrect color on some older TVs.
Wake from sleep: This update addresses an issue where Apple TV may not wake up from sleep.
Audio: This update addresses an issue where audio may not be heard on some TV models after switching from another input.
General updates: This update also includes stability and performance fixes.
Apple TV Software Update 4.2
AirPlay for apps and websites: Wirelessly stream video from iOS apps and websites that are enabled for AirPlay, on an iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch running iOS 4.3.
MLB.TV:1 Watch live and on-demand Major League Baseball games in HD with an MLB.TV subscription.
Pause, rewind, fast-forward, and switch between the home and away broadcast.
Even non-subscribers can access real-time MLB scores and in-game stats, plus see the full-season schedule, standings, and stats (Live games are subject to blackouts).
NBA Game Time:2 Watch live and on-demand games with an NBA League Pass Broadband subscription.
Pause, rewind, and fast-forward both live and on-demand games.
And non-subscribers can access real-time NBA scores and in-game stats, plus see the full-season schedule, standings, stats, and video highlights (Live and archived games are subject to blackouts).
Netflix Dolby Digital 5.1:3 Enjoy Dolby Digital 5.1 surround sound when you watch Netflix movies and TV shows on Apple TV (not available with all titles).
New slideshow themes: View photos with the new Scrapbook, Photo Mobile, and Holiday Mobile slideshow themes or use as the Apple TV screensaver.
Improved on-screen keyboard: Search and enter names and passwords more easily with the redesigned on-screen keyboard.
AirPlay photo slideshow themes: All Apple TV photo slideshow themes are now available when using AirPlay to wirelessly send a photo slideshow from an iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch to Apple TV.
HDMI color mode: This update adds a setting for changing the color mode output over HDMI.
Connectivity and performance fixes: This update includes performance and connectivity fixes.
Live and on-demand games require a MLB.TV
subscription.
Blackouts apply.
Available in the United States.
Live and on-demand games require NBA League Pass Broadband subscription.
Blackouts apply.
Not available with all titles.
Netflix is available in the U.S.and Canada.
Apple TV Software Update 4.1.1
TV resolution fix: This update addresses an issue that causes some high-definition TVs to incorrectly display at 480p.
Download fix: This update addresses an issue that may cause a movie or TV show to be re-downloaded.
Apple TV Software Update 4.1
AirPlay: Stream Videos, Photos, and Music to your Apple TV from an iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch with iOS 4.2 or later.
Stream video and music to your Apple TV from a Mac or PC running iTunes 10.2 or later.
VoiceOver: The VoiceOver accessibility feature brings screen reading to Apple TV, making it easier to use for those who are blind or have impaired vision.
You will hear a description of the menu item currently being highlighted by the cursor, other onscreen text, and feedback on video and audio controls.
VoiceOver speaks all 18 languages available on Apple TV.
Connectivity and performance fixes: This update also includes performance and connectivity fixes.
Convert Numbers spreadsheets to PDF, Microsoft Excel, and more
To open a Numbers spreadsheet in another app, convert it in Numbers first.
You can also open Microsoft Excel spreadsheets and other file types in Numbers.
You can convert and open spreadsheets in Numbers on iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, Mac, or online at iCloud.com.
iPhone or iPad
Mac
iCloud
Convert and open spreadsheets in Numbers on iPhone or iPad
You can work with a variety of file formats in Numbers on your iPhone or iPad.
Check which formats are compatible with Numbers on iPhone and iPad.
Convert a Numbers spreadsheet in Numbers on iPhone or iPad
If you want to open a Numbers spreadsheet in another app like Microsoft Excel, use Numbers to convert the spreadsheet into the appropriate format.
In Numbers, open the spreadsheet that you want to convert, then tap the More button .
Tap Export.
Choose a format for your spreadsheet.
For example, if you want to open your Numbers spreadsheet in Microsoft Excel, choose Excel.
Choose how you want to send your spreadsheet, like with Mail or Messages.
Open a file in Numbers on your iPhone or iPad
To open a file like a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet on your iPhone or iPad, tap the file in the spreadsheet manager.
If you don’t see the spreadsheet manager, tap the Back buttonDocuments button (on an iPhone or iPod touch) or Spreadsheets (on an iPad), then tap the file that you want to open.
If a file is dimmed, it’s not in a compatible format.
You can also open a file in Numbers from a different app like the Files app, or from an email:
Open the other app, then select the spreadsheet or attachment.
Tap the Share button .
Tap Copy to Numbers. The original file remains intact.
After the file opens, you might get a message that the file was last edited in an app other than the most recent version of Numbers.
Tap Done to open the file in Numbers.
Convert and open spreadsheets in Numbers for Mac
You can work with a variety of file formats in Numbers for Mac.
Check which formats are compatible with Numbers for Mac.
Convert a Numbers spreadsheet in Numbers for Mac
If you want to open a Numbers spreadsheet in another app like Microsoft Excel, use Numbers to convert the spreadsheet to an appropriate format.
In Numbers, open the Numbers spreadsheet that you want to convert.
Choose File > Export To, then select the format.
In the window that appears, you can choose a different format or set up any additional options.
For example, you can require a password to open an exported PDF, or choose the format for an exported Excel spreadsheet.
Click Next.
Enter a name for your file and select a folder to save it to.
Click Export.
To send a file in a specific format through Mail, Messages, AirDrop, or Notes, choose Share > Send a Copy, choose how you want to send the spreadsheet, then choose a format.
Open a file in Numbers for Mac
You can open a file from the Finder or from the Numbers app:
From the Finder, Control-click the file, then choose Open With > Numbers.
If Numbers is the only spreadsheet app on your Mac, you can just double-click the file.
From the Numbers for Mac app, choose File > Open, select the file, then click Open.
If a file is dimmed, it’s not a compatible format.
When the file opens, you might get a message that the spreadsheet will look different.
For example, Numbers notifies you when fonts are missing.
You might see also see warnings when you open spreadsheets created in older versions of Numbers.
Convert and open spreadsheets in Numbers for iCloud
Numbers for iCloud lets you open, edit, and share your files from a supported browser on a Mac or PC.
Check which formats are compatible with Numbers for iCloud.
Convert a Numbers spreadsheet in Numbers for iCloud
Sign in to iCloud.com with your Apple ID.
Click Numbers.
In the spreadsheet manager, click the More button  on the file you want to convert, then choose Download a Copy.
If you have the spreadsheet open, click the Tools button  in the toolbar, then choose Download a Copy.
Choose a format for the spreadsheet.
The file begins to download to your browser’s download location.
Open a file in Numbers for iCloud
Sign in to iCloud.com with your Apple ID.
Click Numbers.
Drag the file you want to upload into the spreadsheet manager in your browser.
Or click the Upload button , select the file, then click Choose.
Double-click the file in the spreadsheet manager.
Check file format compatibility
Formats you can open in Numbers
You can open these file formats in Numbers on iPhone, iPad, Mac, and online at iCloud.com:
All Numbers versions
Microsoft Excel: Office Open XML (.xlsx) and Office 97 or later (.xls)
Comma Separated Values (.csv)
Tab-delimited or fixed-width text files
Formats you can convert Numbers spreadsheets into
Numbers on iPhone or iPad:
Microsoft Excel Office Open XML (.xlsx)
PDF
Comma Separated Values (.csv)
Tab Separated Values (.tsv)
Numbers for Mac:
Numbers ’09
Microsoft Excel: Office Open XML (.xlsx) and Office 97 or later (.xls)
PDF
Comma Separated Values (.csv)
Tab Separated Values (.tsv)
Numbers for iCloud:
Microsoft Excel Office Open XML (.xlsx)
PDF
Comma Separated Values (.csv)
Learn more
Numbers on iPhone, iPad, Mac, and online at iCloud.com use the same file format.
If you create or edit a spreadsheet in Numbers on one platform, you can open it in Numbers on any of the other platforms.
You can update to current versions of Numbers on your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch from the App Store.
To update Numbers for Mac, use the App Store app on your Mac.
If you convert a Numbers spreadsheet into Numbers ’09-compatible spreadsheet, learn more about changes that happen when you export to iWork ’09.
AirPlay system requirements
Learn which devices are compatible with AirPlay and AirPlay 2.
About AirPlay and AirPlay 2
AirPlay lets you stream audio from one Apple device to an AirPlay-compatible speaker.
You can also stream video and mirror the screen on your iOS device or Mac to an Apple TV.
AirPlay 2 adds the ability to play music across multiple speakers throughout your home, or play something different in every room.
You can stream video to AirPlay 2-compatible smart TVs, or use Siri on your iOS device to play a movie or TV show in the room where you want to watch it.
1 It's never been easier to control what's playing in every part of your home.
To use AirPlay 2, update your devices to the latest software version and add your AirPlay 2-compatible speakers or smart TVs to the Home app on your iOS device.
Find speakers, receivers, and smart TVs that are compatible with AirPlay 2.
AirPlay 2-compatible devices
AirPlay-compatible devices
AirPlay 2 system requirements
The following devices support streaming audio with AirPlay 2.
If your device meets the requirements below, but you can't use AirPlay, learn what to do.
Devices you can AirPlay 2 audio from
iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch with iOS 11.4 or later
Apple TV 4K or Apple TV HD with tvOS 11.4 or later2
HomePod with iOS 11.4 or later
Mac or PC with iTunes 12.8 or later
Mac with macOS Catalina
Devices you can AirPlay 2 video from
iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch with iOS 12.3 or later
Mac with macOS Mojave 10.14.5 or later
Devices you can stream to
Apple TV 4K or Apple TV HD with tvOS 11.4 or later
HomePod with iOS 11.4 or later
Speakers connected to the Audio Out port on AirPort Express 802.11n (2nd Generation) with the latest firmware update
AirPlay 2-compatible smart TVs1 with the label:
Speakers and receivers with "Works with Apple AirPlay" on the speaker packaging3
AirPlay system requirements
The following devices support streaming with AirPlay.
If your device meets the requirements below, but you can't use AirPlay, learn what to do.
Devices you can stream from
iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch
Mac
iTunes on Mac or PC
Apple TV 4K or Apple TV HD2
Devices you can stream to
HomePod
Apple TV 4K, Apple TV HD, and Apple TV (2nd or 3rd generation)
Speakers connected to the Audio Out port on AirPort Express
Speakers with “Works with Apple AirPlay” on the speaker packaging
To use Siri to play and control video on a smart TV, you need an AirPlay 2-compatible smart TV that supports HomeKit.
HomeKit isn't supported on Samsung smart TVs.
You can only AirPlay audio from Apple TV.
Some third-party speakers might require a firmware update to support AirPlay 2 streaming.
Go to the manufacturer's website to learn more.
About Startup Security Utility
Use Startup Security Utility to make sure that your Mac always starts up from your designated startup disk, and always from a legitimate, trusted operating system.
Available only on Mac computers that have the Apple T2 Security Chip, Startup Security Utility offers three features to help secure your Mac against unauthorized access: Firmware password protection, Secure Boot, and External Boot.
To open Startup Security Utility:
Turn on your Mac, then press and hold Command (⌘)-R immediately after you see the Apple logo.
Your Mac starts up from macOS Recovery.
When you see the macOS Utilities window, choose Utilities > Startup Security Utility from the menu bar.
When you're asked to authenticate, click Enter macOS Password, then choose an administrator account and enter its password.
Firmware password protection
Use a firmware password to prevent anyone who doesn't have the password from starting up from a disk other than your designated startup disk.
To set a firmware password, click Turn On Firmware Password, then follow the onscreen instructions.
Learn more about firmware passwords.
You can also use External Boot to prevent even those who know the firmware password from starting up from external media.
Secure Boot
Use this feature to make sure that your Mac starts up only from a legitimate, trusted operating system.
Learn more about Secure Boot.
External Boot
Use this feature to control whether your Mac can start up from an external hard drive, thumb drive, or other external media.
The default and most secure setting is ”Disallow booting from external media.”
When this setting is selected, your Mac can't be made to start up from any external media:
Startup Disk preferences displays a message that your security settings do not allow this Mac to use an external startup disk.
Startup Manager allows you to select an external startup disk, but doing so causes your Mac to restart to a message that your security settings do not allow this Mac to use an external startup disk.
You'll then have the option to restart from your current startup disk or select another startup disk.
To allow your Mac to use an external startup disk:
Open Startup Security Utility.
Select ”Allow booting from external media.”
Your Mac doesn't support booting from network volumes, whether or not you allow booting from external media.
If you want to select an external startup disk before restarting your Mac, quit Startup Security Utility, then choose Apple menu  > Startup Disk.
Water and other liquid damage to iPhone or iPod isn't covered by warranty
Service for the liquid damage to an iPhone or iPod isn't covered by the Apple One-Year Limited Warranty.
Find out if liquid damaged your iPhone or iPod
If liquid damages an iPhone or iPod (for example, coffee or a soft drink), the service for the liquid damage isn't covered by the Apple One-Year Limited Warranty, but you may have rights under consumer law.
iPhone and most iPod devices that were built after 2006 have built-in Liquid Contact Indicators that will show whether the device has been in contact with water or a liquid containing water.
iPhone and most iPod devices are equipped with Liquid Contact Indicators (LCIs) that you can see from the outside.
An LCI will activate when it contacts water or a liquid containing water.
The indicator's color is normally white or silver, but when it contacts water or a liquid containing water, it will turn fully red.
An LCI won't activate because of humidity and temperature changes that are within the product's environmental requirements.
To find out if the LCI in your device contacted liquid, find your product in the table below and locate the LCI or LCIs in your device.
To help you see the LCI, use a lighted magnifying glass and angle the light or the device until you can see the LCI.
This table shows where the indicator (or indicators) are and how they look after being exposed to liquid:
Product	Liquid Contact Indicator location
iPhone 11
iPhone 11 Pro, iPhone 11 Pro Max
iPhone XS, iPhone XS Max, iPhone X
iPhone XR
iPhone 8, iPhone 8 Plus
iPhone 7, iPhone 7 Plus
iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus
iPhone 5, iPhone 5C, iPhone 5s,  iPhone SE
iPhone 4, iPhone 4s
iPhone 3G, iPhone 3GS
iPhone
iPod touch
iPod nano
iPod classic	 iPod classic
iPod shuffle (3rd generation)	 iPod shuffle (3rd gen)
If you aren't sure if liquid exposure is causing an issue for your device, even if you see a red LCI, contact AppleCare or an authorized iPhone service provider for help.
iPod nano (7th generation) and iPod touch (5th generation) don't have a visible Liquid Contact Indicator.
OS X Legacy FileVault - "There isn't enough space on your hard disk..." alert
When turning Legacy FileVault on or off in Security & Privacy preferences, you may see an alert if you are low on disk space: "There isn&apost enough space on your hard disk to turn on &lparor off&rpar FileVault."
Create a new user account and transfer your data to the account via a sparse disk image.
If you&aposre using OS X Snow Leopard or earlier, you can then re-enable Legacy FileVault on the new account or leave it off if desired.
When you&aposre done, you can delete your original account to recover disk space.
Important: Before performing these steps, you should back up your data &lparor your entire home folder&rpar as a precaution.
Start up in Safe Mode.
Log in to your account if you haven&apost already.
Create an interim disk image to transfer home folder files to
Do not open any other applications while completing these steps.
Open Disk Utility from the Utilities folder in the Applications folder.
From the File menu, choose New > Blank Disk Image.
From the Format: pop-up menu of the Blank Disk Image window, choose "sparse".
Adjust the Size pop-up menu.
The disk image should have enough capacity to hold the contents of your home folder &lpardirectory&rpar.
You can choose "Custom..." from the Size pop-up menu to enter a specific size if needed &lparif you need more than 4.7 GB, for example&rpar.
It&aposs OK if you make the image a little larger than you expect you&aposll need.
For example, if you have 2.3 GB of stuff in your Home, you might create a 2.6 GB &lparor larger&rpar image.
Give the image a unique name, but save it somewhere outside of your Home &lpardon&apost save it on the desktop or in Documents, for example&rpar.
You could save it at the root level of your Mac OS X volume, or on a different partition or different disk.
Note: If your hard disk does not have enough free space for the new image, create it on an external disk or different partition which has enough space.
Mount the new sparse disk image.
In the Finder, select the image volume and choose Get Info from the File menu.
Make sure "Ignore ownership on this volume" is selected &lparat the bottom of the window&rpar.
Open your home folder &lparfrom the Go menu, choose Home&rpar.
Select all items in your Home and drag them &lparcopy&rpar to the mounted sparse disk image.
Advanced note: Invisible files or folders might not be copied&semi usually this should present no issue or only a minor issue--for example, ssh users will need to accept the ssh key after completing these steps.
Create a new user account
From the Apple menu, choose System Preferences.
From the View menu, choose Accounts or Users & Groups.
Create a new account that has the same privileges as your original, current account &lparenable "Allow user to administer this computer" if it is enabled for your current account&rpar.
You may wish to give it a name similar to your current account.
Log out of your account and log in to the new account created in the previous step.
Copy files from the disk image to your new account
&NewLineAvoid opening any other applications during this process.
Mount the same, new sparse disk image that you copied files to.
In the Finder, select the image volume&aposs icon and choose Get Info from the File menu.
Make sure "Ignore ownership on this volume" is selected &lparat the bottom of the window&rpar.
Highlight all items in the sparse disk image and drag them into your new account&aposs home folder &lparfrom the Finder&aposs Go menu, choose Home&rpar.
You may be prompted to confirm that you wish to replace some items.
Restart when the copy has completed.
Log into the new user account and verify that all desired data has been transferred and that you can open files as expected &lparthings on your desktop or in your Documents folder, for example&rpar.
If desired, enable FileVault for this account in Security & Privacy preferences.
Reclaiming disk space
If you want to reclaim the disk space used by the old account, use System Preferences to delete the original user account.
You can also delete the interim sparse image.
Important: Do not delete these items unless you are sure that all files have been properly copied.
Advanced users should make sure any needed invisible files were copied, if not you can use Terminal to copy or move them.
How to erase a disk for Mac
Use Disk Utility to erase (format) a hard disk, SSD, flash drive, or other storage device.
Erasing your disk: For most reasons to erase, including when reformatting a disk or selling, giving away, or trading in your Mac, you should erase your entire disk.
Erasing a volume on your disk: In other cases, such as when your disk contains multiple volumes (or partitions) and you don't want to erase them all, you can erase specific volumes on the disk.
Erasing a disk or volume permanently deletes all of its files.
Before continuing, make sure that you have a backup of any files that you want to keep.
How to erase your disk
Start up from macOS Recovery.
Then select Disk Utility from the Utilities window and click Continue.
If you're not erasing the disk your Mac started up from, you don't need to start up from macOS Recovery: just open Disk Utility from the Utilities folder of your Applications folder.
The macOS Utilities window in Recovery
Choose View > Show All Devices from the menu bar in Disk Utility.
The sidebar now shows your disks (devices) and any containers and volumes within them.
The disk your Mac started up from is at the top of the list.
In this example, Apple SSD is the startup disk:
Erasing a disk and choosing a scheme in Disk Utility
Select the disk that you want to erase.
-Don't see your disk?
Click Erase, then complete these items:
Name: Type the name that you want the disk to have after you erase it.
Format: Choose APFS or Mac OS Extended (Journaled).
Disk Utility shows a compatible format by default.
Scheme: Choose GUID Partition Map.
Click Erase to begin erasing your disk and every container and volume within it.
You might be asked to enter your Apple ID.
Forgot your Apple ID?
When done, quit Disk Utility.
If you want your Mac to be able to start up from the disk you erased, reinstall macOS on the disk.
How to erase a volume on your disk
Start up from macOS Recovery.
Then select Disk Utility from the Utilities window and click Continue.
If you're not erasing the volume your Mac started up from, you don't need to start up from macOS Recovery: just open Disk Utility from the Utilities folder of your Applications folder.
The macOS Utilities window in Recovery
In the sidebar of Disk Utility, select the volume that you want to erase.
The volume your Mac started up from is named Macintosh HD, unless you changed its name.
Don't see your volume?
Click Erase, then complete these items:
Name: Type the name that you want the volume to have after you erase it.
Format: Choose APFS or Mac OS Extended (Journaled).
Disk Utility shows a compatible format by default.
If you see an Erase Volume Group button, the volume you selected is part of a volume group.
In that case, you should erase the volume group.
Otherwise, click Erase to erase just the selected volume.
You might be asked to enter your Apple ID.
Forgot your Apple ID?
When done, quit Disk Utility.
If you want your Mac to be able to start up from the volume you erased, reinstall macOS on that volume.
Reasons to erase
You can erase at any time, including in circumstances such as these:
You want to permanently erase all content from your Mac and restore it to factory settings.
This is one of the final steps before selling, giving away, or trading in your Mac.
You're changing the format of a disk, such as from a PC format (FAT, ExFAT, or NTFS) to a Mac format (APFS or Mac OS Extended).
You received a message that your disk isn't readable by this computer.
You're trying to resolve a disk issue that Disk Utility can't repair.
The macOS installer doesn't see your disk or can't install on it.
For example, the installer might say that your disk isn't formatted correctly, isn't using a GUID partition scheme, contains a newer version of the operating system, or can't be used to start up your computer.
The macOS installer says that you may not install to this volume because it is part of an Apple RAID.
About APFS and Mac OS Extended
Disk Utility in macOS High Sierra or later can erase using either the newer APFS (Apple File System) format or the older Mac OS Extended format, and it automatically chooses a compatible format for you.
How to choose between APFS and Mac OS Extended
Disk Utility tries to detect the type of storage and show the appropriate format in the Format menu.
If it can't, it chooses Mac OS Extended, which works with all versions of macOS.
If you want to change the format, answer these questions:
Are you formatting the disk that came built into your Mac?
If the built-in disk came APFS-formatted, Disk Utility suggests APFS.
Don't change it to Mac OS Extended.
Are you about to install macOS High Sierra or later for the first time on the disk?
If you need to erase your disk before installing High Sierra or later for the first time on that disk, choose Mac OS Extended (Journaled).
During installation, the macOS installer decides whether to automatically convert to APFS—without erasing your files.
Are you preparing a Time Machine backup disk or bootable installer?
Choose Mac OS Extended (Journaled) for any disk that you plan to use as a Time Machine backup disk or as a bootable installer.
Will you be using the disk with another Mac?
If the other Mac isn't using macOS High Sierra or later, choose Mac OS Extended (Journaled).
Earlier versions of macOS don't work with APFS-formatted volumes.
How to identify the format currently in use
If you want to know which format is currently in use, use any of these methods:
Select the volume in the Disk Utility sidebar, then check the information shown on the right.
For more detail, choose File > Get Info from the Disk Utility menu bar.
Open System Information and select Storage in the sidebar.
The File System column on the right shows the format of each volume.
Select the volume in the Finder, then choose File > Get Info from the menu bar.
The Get Info window shows the Format of that volume.
If your disk or volume doesn't appear, or the erase fails
Shut down your Mac, then unplug all nonessential devices from your Mac.
If you're erasing an external drive, make sure that it's connected directly to your Mac using a cable that you know is good.
Then turn the drive off and back on.
If your disk or volume still doesn't appear in Disk Utility, or Disk Utility reports that the erase process failed, your disk or Mac might need service.
If you need help, please contact Apple Support.
Learn more
If you can't start up from macOS Recovery, you can use a different startup disk instead.
If Disk Utility shows a Security Options button in the Erase window, you can click that button to choose between a faster (but less secure) erase and a slower (but more secure) erase.
Some older versions of Disk Utility offer the option to zero all data instead.
These secure-erase options aren't offered or needed for solid-state drives (SSDs) and flash storage.
How to erase your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch
Use CarPlay with your iPhone
CarPlay is a smarter and safer way to use your iPhone in the car — allowing you to stay focused on the road.
When you connect your iPhone to CarPlay, you can get turn-by-turn directions, make calls, send and receive messages, listen to music, and more.
With iOS 13, the CarPlay Dashboard brings a simpler view of the road ahead.
The new dashboard gives you a single place to keep track of Maps, audio controls, and Siri Suggestions, which provide easy access to things like your Calendar events.
You can even use the dashboard to take control of your HomeKit accessories, like door openers.
Make sure that your country or region supports CarPlay and that your car supports CarPlay.
If you're unsure if your car supports CarPlay, contact the vehicle manufacturer.
Set up CarPlay
Start your car.
Then make sure that Siri is on.
Connect your iPhone to your car:
If your car supports CarPlay with a USB cable, plug your iPhone into the USB port in your car.
The USB port might be labeled with a CarPlay icon or a smartphone icon.
If your car supports wireless CarPlay, press and hold the voice-command button on your steering wheel.
Make sure that your stereo is in wireless or Bluetooth mode.
Then on your iPhone, go to Settings > General > CarPlay, tap Available cars, and select your car.
Check your car manual for more information.
Learn more about CarPlay and driving and navigating safely.
Use Siri to control CarPlay
Depending on your car, there are two ways you can use Siri to control CarPlay:
Press and hold the voice-command button on your steering wheel.
Then ask Siri a question or to do something.
Touch and hold the CarPlay Dashboard or CarPlay home button on your touchscreen.
Then ask Siri a question or to do something.
Siri also makes suggestions in CarPlay for what you might want to do next, such as drive to your next meeting.
Siri Suggestions and CarPlay work seamlessly to keep your favorite apps at your fingertips.
If you have HomeKit-enabled accessories — like a garage door opener — you can use the Siri suggestions that appear on the CarPlay dashboard, or simply ask Siri to do things like "Open the garage door" when you get close to your house.
Use your car's built-in controls to operate CarPlay
Cars supported by CarPlay should have built-in controls, such as a touchscreen, rotary knob, or touchpad.
To learn how to operate your CarPlay display, check the manual that came with your car.
You can also use Siri to control CarPlay, even if you have built-in controls.
Learn more about the common controls used in cars supported by CarPlay.
Arrange your CarPlay apps
While using CarPlay, the display in your car will show your available apps.
To add, remove, or arrange the order of the apps on your iPhone:
Go to Settings > General, then tap CarPlay.
Select your car.
Then tap Customize.
Use the add  or delete  buttons to add or remove apps.
Tap and drag an app to change the order the apps appear in.
The next time you connect your iPhone to CarPlay, the new order of your apps should appear on the display.
Only apps that are supported by CarPlay will appear on your display.
Need help?
If you have an issue with a third-party app, try to contact the app developer.
If CarPlay doesn't work like you expect, learn what to do.
If Safari doesn't load a page or webpage items are missing
Check Safari extensions, or try removing cookies, cache, and other website data if a webpage or site doesn't load on your Mac.
Use the steps in this article if this happens in Safari on your Mac:
You can’t log in to a secure website.
A webpage repeatedly reloads or redirects.
A message on a webpage tells you to remove or reset cookies.
Some images, videos, or other items aren't displayed on a webpage, but other page elements load.
Check Parental Controls
If you're logged into a user account that is restricted by Parental Controls or other web filtering software, some pages or page elements might not load if those sites aren't allowed.
For example, embedded videos might not display if they're hosted on a site other than the one you're viewing.
Check with your administrator to see if you can get access to the site that you're trying to view.
Check Safari extensions
Some Safari extensions that block ads or other website content can prevent some page elements from displaying.
You can temporarily turn off extensions, then re-load the page to see if this is the issue.
Choose Safari > Preferences.
Click Extensions.
Select an extension, then deselect the checkbox "Enable… extension."
Repeat this step for every extension that's currently installed.
Reload the page by choosing Choose View > Reload in Safari.
If the webpage loads correctly, one or more extensions was blocking the content from loading.
Re-enable an extension, then reload the page again to determine which extension is blocking the content you want to view.
If the website still doesn't load with all of your extensions disabled, try the next steps in this article.
If Safari doesn't load pages from a specific site
If only one webpage or website isn't working, you can remove data related to that site to see if it fixes the issue.
Use these steps to remove cookies, cache, and other data stored by Safari for a specific site:
Choose Safari > Preferences.
Click the Privacy icon.
Click the Details button.
Search for the name or domain of the website whose data you want to remove.
In the results list, click the domain (like example.com) that has data you want to remove.
Click Remove.
When you're finished, click Done and close the preferences window.
remove history, cookies, cache, website data, for a specific site
If you used the Private Browsing feature of Safari when visiting a website, you might not see the site listed here.
If Safari doesn't load pages from multiple sites
In OS X Yosemite, you can delete website data for the past hour, or past few days if websites or pages stopped loading recently.
Choose History > Clear History and Website Data.
In the sheet that appears, choose the range of data you want to remove from the Clear pop-up menu.
Click Clear History.
remove history, cookies, cache, website data
If you want to remove website data for all of the sites and pages you've ever visited, choose "all history" from the Clear pop-up menu.
The option to Remove All Website Data in the Privacy pane of Safari preferences does this, too.
These options also reset your browsing history and Top Sites.
Learn more
To learn more about cache, cookies, and other website data, open Safari and search for the word "history" or "privacy" from the Help menu.
Get help using Outlook with iCloud for Windows
Try these steps if you need help with your iCloud Mail, Contacts, and Calendars in Outlook, and learn about iCloud features that work differently between your Apple device and Outlook.
Before you start:
Make sure that your PC meets the iCloud system requirements.
Download iCloud for Windows.
Sign in to iCloud for Windows with your Apple ID.
If you don't use iCloud for Windows, set up two-factor authentication and sign in to Outlook with your Apple ID user name and an app-specific password.
Check the System Status page to see if there are any known issues affecting iCloud Mail, Contacts, or Calendars.
Make sure the date and time settings on your device are correct.
Make copies of your iCloud data.
If you don’t have devices that can be updated to iOS 9 or OS X El Capitan, you can set up two-step verification instead.
Resolve Duplicates
If you’re having trouble with duplicate calendars, we can help you remove them.
And if you see duplicate contacts, we'll help you remove them as well.
Check your Internet connection
Try to open apple.com.
If you can’t connect, then your iCloud Calendars, Contacts or Reminders won’t update in Outlook.
You'll need to get help with your Internet connection.
Try to open a secure website from your PC.
If you see an error message such as "connection timed out," you'll need to contact your Internet service provider for help.
Check your log-in settings
If you have multiple Apple IDs that you use with iCloud, you might be logged in to iCloud for Windows with a different account than you are on your other devices.
To check, open iCloud for Windows and compare it with your other devices.
Refresh Outlook
If you recently made changes in Outlook that aren't updating on your other devices, or changes on your other devices that aren't updating in Outlook, click Refresh in Outlook.
If the installed version of Outlook is not supported
If you receive an error that says the Installed version of Outlook is not supported by iCloud, uninstall the version of Office that you got from the Windows store.
Then, follow these steps to install Office 365.
If the Mail option in your iCloud for Windows account is grayed out
Before you can use iCloud Mail, you need to create an @icloud.com email address.
If you didn't set up an iCloud Mail account when you set up iCloud, the Mail option in your iCloud for Windows account might be grayed out.
To make the Mail option available, set up an @icloud.com email address, then close and reopen iCloud for Windows.
If you still don't see the Mail option, sign out and back in to iCloud for Windows.
Mail
Get help setting up or sending your iCloud Mail.
If you have emails that stay in your Outbox
If you see an email stays in your Outbox, follow these steps:
Move the message from the Outbox to the Drafts folder, or delete it.
Open the message in the Drafts or Deleted Items folder, then click Send again.
If you can't set up Mail using iCloud for Windows
You need to set up an @icloud.com email address before you can use iCloud Mail.
If you didn't set up an iCloud Mail account at the same time as iCloud, the Mail option in your iCloud for Windows account might be grayed out.
After you set up an @icloud.com email address, you can make the Mail option available when you close and reopen iCloud for Windows.
If you still don't see the Mail option, sign out and back in to iCloud for Windows.
If you can't send or receive mail
If you can't send or receive messages with your iCloud email address, follow these steps:
Make sure you can send and receive email from iCloud.com and your iOS device.
Close Outlook.
Sign out of iCloud for Windows, and then sign back in.
Restart Outlook.
If you still can't send or receive mail, you can get more help with Outlook or contact us.
If your mail doesn't sync across your devices
If you notice you need to delete emails from your inbox on all of your devices, your mail might not be synced between your iOS device and iCloud for Windows.
To sync your devices, follow these steps:
Open iCloud for Windows.
Deselect Mail.
Click Apply.
Reselect Mail.
Click Apply.
Sign out of iCloud for Windows, then sign back in again.
If your devices still don't sync, you can learn more.
If you want iCloud as your default account for sending mail
You can change your Outlook settings so that emails are automatically sent from your iCloud account.
To make iCloud the default account, follow these steps in Outlook 2010 or later:
Go to File > Account Settings.
On the Info tab, click Account Settings.
Choose your iCloud account from the list, then click Set as Default.
If you can't click Set as Default, then your iCloud account is already the default account.
Calendar, Contacts, and Reminders
If you need help with your Calendar, Contacts and Reminders with iCloud for Windows, try these steps.
When you open iCloud Reminders on your Windows PC, they're labeled Tasks and appear within the Tasks section.
Turn iCloud Calendar, Contacts and Reminders off and back on
Close Outlook.
Open iCloud for Windows.
Deselect the Mail, Contacts, Calendars & Tasks checkbox and click Apply.
Wait a few seconds.
Select Mail, Contacts, Calendars & Tasks, and click Apply.
Open Outlook.
Make sure that the iCloud Outlook Add-in is on
The iCloud Outlook Add-in transfers your content between iCloud and Outlook.
Follow these steps in Outlook 2010 and later to check and turn on the Add-in:
Select the File menu.
Click Options in the left panel.
Click Add-ins in the left panel of the Outlook Options window.
Look at the list of add-ins in the Active Application Add-ins section.
If the iCloud Add-in is listed uner Inactive or Disabled Add-ins, make sure that Com Add-ins is selected in the drop-down menu next to Manage at the bottom of the window.
Then click Go.
Select the iCloud Outlook Add-in checkbox, then click OK.
Restart Outlook.
Make sure that iCloud isn’t your default account in Data Files
When iCloud is set as your default account in Data Files, your data won't sync between your devices.
Select File > Info > Account Settings > Data Files.
If iCloud is listed as the default account in the Comments column, select a different account.
Click Set as Default.
Restart your computer
Turn your computer off and back on.
iCloud features that work differently in Outlook
Some iCloud features in Outlook work differently than they do on your Apple device.
Here are a few tips to help you use Outlook with iCloud for Windows.
Mail and Notes
VIP Senders folders aren't available in Outlook.
Any mail rules that you create in Outlook aren't available in the mail applications for your other devices or on iCloud.com.
Signatures are saved locally to your device.
You won't see signatures you create in Outlook on your other devices.
Notes isn't a separate application.
Your notes are stored in a mail folder.
You'll find Notes that you create on your other devices in this folder.
Notes that you post to this folder from Outlook won't appear on your other devices, but you'll see them on any other computer using Outlook and iCloud for Windows when you're signed in with the same Apple ID.
You can delete notes from this folder and they'll be deleted from your other devices.
Contacts
Outlook will only import the first contact in a vCard set.
If you need to add a vCard set to Outlook, import the set directly into iCloud.com or macOS Contacts.
We will bundle the entire set for you and add them as individuals to your Contacts.
Calendars
When you add Calendar attachments to a Calendar entry in Outlook, you won't see them in Calendar for iOS or Calendar for macOS (or the other way around).
Reminders (Tasks)
Like Calendars and Contacts, you need to enter your Reminders in the iCloud section of Tasks in Outlook.
If you don't enter your Tasks into the iCloud section, they won't transfer to iCloud.
Find Apple Customer Numbers, Reseller IDs, and Organization IDs
Learn how to find your number or ID and when to use it with Apple Business Manager or with Apple School Manager.
This article is for system administrators.
If you need support, learn how to contact Apple.
When you add your Apple Customer Number or Reseller ID to Apple Business Manager or Apple School Manager, you can deploy your devices and purchase apps and books in volume.
Find your Apple Customer Number or Reseller ID
Whether you purchase your devices from Apple or from a participating Apple Authorized Reseller, learn how to find your number or ID.
If you purchased from Apple
When you purchase from Apple, we assign an Apple Customer Number to your organization.
If you don’t know your Apple Customer Number, contact your finance department or Apple Sales.
If you buy Apple devices from an Apple Store, ask the Business Team for your Apple Customer Number.
If you purchased from an Apple Authorized Reseller or wireless carrier
Contact your Apple Authorized Reseller or wireless carrier.
Confirm that they support the Device Enrollment feature of Apple Business Manager or Apple School Manager.
Ask for their Reseller ID.
If they don't support these programs, ask them to contact their distributor or Apple account team to enroll your devices.
Find your Organization ID
If you purchase devices from an Apple Authorized Reseller or wireless carrier, you also need to provide your Organization ID to your reseller or carrier.
Here's how to find it:
Log in to Apple Business Manager or Apple School Manager
Click Settings, then click Enrollment Information.
Look for your Organization ID in the Enrollment Information pane.
How to use your number or ID with Apple Business Manager or with Apple School Manager
After your organization is approved for Apple Business Manager or Apple School Manager, you can add device suppliers by entering your Apple Customer Number, or your reseller or carrier's Reseller ID:*
Log in to Apple Business Manager or Apple School Manager.
Click Settings, then click Device Management Settings.
Next to Customer Numbers, click Edit.
Enter your number or ID.
Click Apply.
If you enter a Reseller ID, you also need to provide your Organization ID to your reseller or carrier.
You can find your Organization ID in the Enrollment Information pane.
If you represent a large organisation, such as a local educational authority, you might have more than one Apple Customer Number or Reseller ID.
You can add multiple Apple Customer Numbers or Reseller IDs when you enrol, or at any time after you enrol.
Our work in society
We seek to support societies whose young people, citizens and institutions contribute to and benefit from a more inclusive, open and prosperous world.
Our work in society helps people and organisations contribute to a more secure, inclusive and prosperous world.
We partner with civil society organisations, government ministries and institutions in the UK, Thailand and around the world to deliver high quality programmes such as ‘Skills for Social Entrepreneurs’.
This scheme supports social enterprises which employ business approaches to meet social and environmental needs and make a positive impact in their local community, drawing on UK expertise.
It focuses on four core strands, namely: policy & government engagement, capacity building, higher education and international development.
Enquiry for Partner Schools and Universities
In order to get more information on how to partner your institution with the British Council, complete this form and we will be in touch shortly.
Alternatively, call us on: 02 657 5678 or 053 242 103
* Name
* Surname
* Telephone number
* Email
British Council collects your personal data to enable any requests arising from this submission to be processed, including contacting you to progress your request; we will not share it with anyone else.
By clicking submit you confirm that you agree to our terms and conditions (contract).
Data Protection
British Council complies with data protection law in the UK and laws in other countries that meet internationally accepted standards.
You have the right to ask for a copy of the information we hold on you, and the right to ask us to correct any inaccuracies in that information.
If you have concerns about how we have used your personal information, you also have the right to complain to a privacy regulator.
For detailed information, please refer to the privacy section of our website, or contact your local British Council office.
We will keep your information for a period of 6 months from the time of collection.
Our events and seminars
Throughout the year, the British Council Thailand hosts a variety of exhibitions, fairs, seminars and programmes in order to facilitate those who want to experience the UK's expertise in education.
Find out about each events below.
Study UK
Don't miss Study UK Fair by British Council, Sat 6 July 2019, Centara Grand @ Central World (BTS Siam / Chidlom)
Opportunities to meet with educational institutions from the UK to get information and submit your application for this academic year or for the Jan / Feb start.
Ravensbourne
Find More Information about Ravensbourne
Ravensbourne
City/Town: London
Region: Greater London
www.ravensbourne.ac.uk
Ravensbourne is a world-class university sector institution.
Our ambition is to shape the creative leaders of the future, promoting in them an instinct for innovation that is cultivated from collaborative creativity.
Technology is integral to Ravensbourne’s DNA.
As the only independent higher education institution with a longstanding specialism in Design, Media, Communication and Technology, and exceptional links with the dynamic creative industries we serve, our purpose is to:
Transform the lives of our diverse student population, through a unique specialist educational experience which combines an imaginative blend of tools, practices and techniques
Harness creative talent by delivering the skills that enable people to flourish as innovative, self-sustaining practitioners
Bridge gaps and move with agility between industry and education
Link research with real-world application as a world-leader in the creative exploitation of emerging technologies in order to deliver sustainable, positive, social and economic change
All of our activities are founded on three core values of creativity, integration with industry and inclusivity.
Glenalmond College
Find more information about Glenalmond College
Glenalmond College
City/Town: Perth
Region: Scotland
www.glenalmondcollege.co.uk
We are a genuine seven day a week full boarding school as over 80% of our pupils are full boarders and we don't offer weekly or flexi boarding.
We have over 200 UK boarders and approximately 100 International students.
The majority of our International students come from within the EU and we currently only have 14 students from Mainland China, 7 from Hong Kong and 2 from Russia.
Academic standards are high and the majority of our leavers progress to top universities.
Teesside University
Teesside University
Find more information about Teesside University
City/Town: Middlesbrough
Region: Northern England
Level of study:
Undergraduate
Postgraduate taught course
Postgraduate research (e.g. MPhil, PhD)
A safe and friendly campus located in a multicultural town centre, with all accommodation and facilities within walking distance.
Well-connected by public transport & great for exploring the UK in your free time
Affordable accommodation with free internet access, all within walking distance of the campus
Top 20 animation schools in the world (2019 International Ranking - Animation Career Review 2019)
Silver rating in the government’s new Teaching Excellence Framework
Subject strengths: Animation & Games, Cybersecurity and Networks, Computer Science, Engineering, Psychology, Health & Social Care
Students from over 100 countries graduated from our programmes.
Invested over £270m in our vibrant campus, including a new £20m teaching facility
Ranked no. 1 of 44 UK universities for physical library, technology, laboratories, online library, virtual learning, campus buildings (International Student Barometer 2018*, 410 students participated)
For more information including participating institutions: bit.ly/info-i-graduate-ISB2018.
-Full verification data available on request: Email info@i-graduate.org
The King's School, Canterbury
Find more information about The King's School, Canterbury
The King's School, Canterbury
City/Town: Canterbury
www.kings-school.co.uk
With an educational history going back to 597 CE, The King's School Canterbury is the oldest school in the UK and possibly in Europe.
It currently educates pupils from 3-18 in two separate and linked schools: The King's School, Canterbury and The Junior King's School, Canterbury.
The International College will be the latest member of this historic King's family.
It will open in September 2018 in a state-of-the-art building designed by top London architects.
Students will be part of that history but receive an education that is an innovative blend of the traditional and very modern, specifically constructed for international students and genuinely equipping them for a global future.
The College will focus upon educating students, aged 11-16, for whom English isn’t their first language, preparing them for entry to a suitable senior school for their further studies.
All students will receive a King’s Graduation Certificate which recognises their academic progress, their personal development and their all-round contribution to College life beyond the purely academic curriculum.
If appropriate they will be prepared for a selection of International GCSE examinations.
They will be supported at all times by the highest quality of pastoral care.
King’s specialises in all aspects of education providing a very wide range of opportunities.
The College will be a global community, thereby welcoming international students of any national, ethnic and religious background.
Bangor University
Find more information about Bangor University
Bangor University
City/Town: Bangor
Region: Wales
www.bangor.ac.uk
Founded in 1884, dedicated to academic excellence for more than 130 years, Bangor University is one of the oldest and most prestigious degree awarding institutions in the UK.
Among the top 2% of global higher education institutions
World top 100 international university – Times Higher Education Ranking 2015
Top-50 UK University – Times University League table 2015
Top-10 UK University for Teaching Quality– Times University League Table 2016
Top-10 UK University for "student satisfaction" – NSS 2015
Bangor is a small safe friendly city located in an area of outstanding natural beauty where the Snowdonia mountains meet the sea.
It provides student with a secure and cost effective study environment.
With over 100 free clubs and societies to join there's lots of opportunitites for student to get invovled in student life.
Our history
The British Council is the UK’s international organisation for cultural relations and educational opportunities.
We create friendly knowledge and understanding between the people of the UK and other countries.
Using the UK’s cultural resources we make a positive contribution to the countries we work with – changing lives by creating opportunities, building connections and engendering trust.
We work with over 100 countries across the world in the fields of arts and culture, English language, education and civil society.
Each year we reach over 20 million people face-to-face and more than 500 million people online, via broadcasts and publications.
Founded in 1934, we are a UK charity governed by Royal Charter and a UK public body.
The majority of our income is raised delivering a range of projects and contracts in English teaching and examinations, education and development contracts and from partnerships with public and private organisations.
Eighteen per cent of our funding is received from the UK government.
Bellerbys College
Find more information about Bellerbys College
Bellerbys College
City/Town: Brighton, London, Cambridge
Region: Southern England, Greater London, Eastern England
www.bellerbys.com
Bellerbys College is part of Study Group International, which is a global family of organisations committed to providing a complete range of academic, vocational and English Language programmes.
Bellerbys College, founded in 1959, is the academic division of Study Group International.
Bellerbys specializes in quality university preparation and high school Programmes for international students.
Bellerbys has centres in three locations - Brighton, Cambridge and London – each committed to ensuring that students achieve their full potential during their studies.
Trent College
Find more information about Trent College
Trent College
City/Town: Nottingham
Region: Central England
www.trentcollege.net
Trent College are a flourishing boarding school in the middle of the UK.
We have 760 students, the vast majority of whom are British with only 7% of our student joining us from outside the UK.
Our boarding houses are family orientated for our younger students whom board with us from age 11.
Sixth form students studying A Levels get a taste of independence and preparation for University.
The school prides itself on a balanced education - Academic success alongside a full and vibrant timetable including Sport, Music, Art, Drama, Guest speakers and events programme and exciting weekend activities for our boarders.
Free IELTS Seminar by British Council
Date
Saturday 02 September 2017 -
13:00 to 16:00
Location
The Landmark Bangkok Hotel (BTS Nana)
Seats are limited! Register now to reserve your seat in advance.
This free seminar combines important information about IELTS with practical ways to prepare for the test.
IELTS test format
Procedures for taking the test
How your result will help you to apply to local and international universities
Time Agenda
12:45 -13.15Registration at the venue
13:15 -14.15What is IELTS?
14:15 - 14.30Break
14.30-15.30	Preparation for IELTS
15.30-16.00	Q&A/ Lucky Draw
Special Offer for on-site registration:
- IELTS Cambridge book when register IELTS at the event
- Lucky draw with a chance to win the limited edition of wristband IELTS USB with IELTS practise test
University of Strathclyde
University of Strathclyde
Find more information about the University of Strathclyde
City/Town: Glasgow
Region: Scotland
Level of study:
Undergraduate
Postgraduate taught course
Postgraduate research (e.g. MPhil, PhD)
The University of Strathclyde is a leading international technological university located in the heart of Glasgow – one of the UK’s largest cities – and has a vibrant, international community with almost 23,000 students from over 100 countries.
For more than 200 years Strathclyde has been delivering academic excellence through world-class research and teaching, providing students with flexible, innovative learning in preparation for their chosen career path.
Strathclyde received a five-star rating in a QS audit of universities’ key performance areas.
Swansea University
Find More Information about Swansea University
Swansea University
City/Town: Swansea
Region: Wales
www.swansea.ac.uk
Established in 1920, Swansea University is 26th in the UK in the recent Research Excellent Framework (REF), proud winners of the 2014 WhatUni?
Student Choice Award and Joint 8th in the UK for student satisfaction (NSS, 2015).
In September 2015 we opened our new £450 million Bay Campus which is home to students studying Business, Economics and Engineering.
This development gives students both state of the art facilities and unrivalled access to industry experts who are co-located on campus.
Our seafront campuses are located within walking distance of Swansea, a cosmopolitan city with a maritime feel.
Swansea benefits from excellent transport links: Cardiff is under an hour away, and London just three hours by train.
Excellent Employability
We offer a comprehensive package of support and opportunities, including:
• Business start-up support and enterprise skills development
• Well-established study and work abroad programmes
• Subject specific employability weeks featuring networking events with industry experts, guest speakers and opportunities to get involved with live projects
• Summer  and short Programmes (both cultural, study and work-based) to make your CV stand out
Cranfield University
Cranfield University
City/Town: Cranfield
Region: Southern England
www.cranfield.ac.uk
Cranfield is an exclusively postgraduate university specialised in aerospace, defence and security, energy and power, environment and agrifood, manufacturing, transport systems, water, leadership and management.
We are the only university in the world to own and run an airport and to have airline status.
Our staff-to-student ratio 1:5 is one of the best for any university in the UK and the world.
We currently work with over 1,500 companies and organisations around the world.
We are UK No 1 for Aerospace Engineering and Technology, and UK No 4 for Mechanical, Aeronautical and Manufacturing.
Our business school is among 1% globally with triple accreditation and top 10 in Forbes' ranking of the best International Business Schools.
Our Business School is 7th in the UK and 30th in Europe in the Financial Times European Business Schools 2017 Rankings.
Our MBA programme is 3rd in the UK and 10th in the world (outside the US) in Forbes' ranking of The Best International MBAs: One-Year Programs 2017.
In 2017, our MSc Management ranks 1st in the UK and 7th in the world in The Economist Which MBA? Masters in Management (MiM) ranking.
Our MSc Logistics and Supply Chain Management ranks 1st outside the US and 11th globally in the Supply Chain Management World 'University100' annual survey 2016.
We are UK No 8 for Agriculture and Forestry and UK No 26 for Environmental Sciences in 2017 QS World University Rankings.
University College Birmingham
Find more information about University College Birmingham
University College Birmingham
City/Town: Birmingham
Region: Central England
www.ucb.ac.uk
University College Birmingham (UCB) is a specialist international institution with a track record for excellence in educating and training students from around the world.
UCB has the academic expertise, industry knowledge and skills to equip future managers for senior positions in today’s rapidly changing marketplace.
We are offering degree programmes in:
- Business & Marketing Management
- Hospitality & Tourism Management
- Events Management
- Airport Management
- Bakery and Culinary Arts Management
- Education and Community (Social Care) Management
- Sport & Therapy Management
- Beauty & Spa Management
Our high standards of teaching and achievement are underlined by the fact that most of our courses are accredited by the University of Birmingham, which is widely recognised as one of the UK’s leading academic institution.
Furthermore, as a highly-focused, vocationally-based institution, UCB equips its students to excel in the international marketplace.
Academic staffs are recruited from a broad range of highly successful industry backgrounds.
Lecture-room and seminar theory are applied to industry practice to give our students a competitive edge.
Finally, many of our courses feature industrial placements and live projects, many at overseas locations, where students are challenged to apply their learning to real-life situations.
We look forward to welcoming you to UCB, the International University that works!
University College Birmingham
Find more information about University College Birmingham
University College Birmingham
City/Town: Birmingham
Region: Central England
www.ucb.ac.uk
University College Birmingham (UCB) is a specialist international institution with a track record for excellence in educating and training students from around the world.
UCB has the academic expertise, industry knowledge and skills to equip future managers for senior positions in today’s rapidly changing marketplace.
We are offering degree programmes in:
- Business & Marketing Management
- Hospitality & Tourism Management
- Events Management
- Airport Management
- Bakery and Culinary Arts Management
- Education and Community (Social Care) Management
- Sport & Therapy Management
- Beauty & Spa Management
Our high standards of teaching and achievement are underlined by the fact that most of our courses are accredited by the University of Birmingham, which is widely recognised as one of the UK’s leading academic institution.
Furthermore, as a highly-focused, vocationally-based institution, UCB equips its students to excel in the international marketplace.
Academic staffs are recruited from a broad range of highly successful industry backgrounds.
Lecture-room and seminar theory are applied to industry practice to give our students a competitive edge.
Finally, many of our courses feature industrial placements and live projects, many at overseas locations, where students are challenged to apply their learning to real-life situations.
We look forward to welcoming you to UCB, the International University that works!
University of Leicester
University of Leicester
Find more information about the University of Leicester
City/Town: Leicester
Region: Central England
Level of study:
Undergraduate
Postgraduate taught course
Postgraduate research (e.g. MPhil, PhD)
At the heart of the UK, Leicester is a leading university committed to international excellence, world-changing research and high quality, inspirational teaching.
Celebrating diversity among our staff and students; widening participation in higher education; engaging with local, national and international communities – all of these are part of what we do and who we are.
Founded in 1921 as a memorial to the Great War, the University of Leicester has a proud history of ambitious projects that lead to amazing discoveries.
This is where genetic fingerprinting was invented in 1984 and home of the team who found King Richard III.
In our second century, we will continue to aspire to be the very best in everything that we do.
Scholarships:
College of Science & Engineering Discount - 22-28% tuition fee reduction
LLM Scholarship - 15% tuition fee reduction
Scarborough College
Find more information about Scarborough College
Scarborough College
CITY/TOWN: SCARBOROUGH
REGION: NORTHERN ENGLAND
www.scarboroughcollege.co.uk
Scarborough College is an independent day and boarding school for children aged 3-18, accommodating boarders from age 11 upwards.
We also offer a bespoke, individually tailored one year Pre-Sixth Form programme for international students, leading on to the prestigious International Baccalaureate Diploma in our Sixth Form, for all our students.
Scarborough College is nationally recognised each year as one of the top performing IB schools in the UK.
The College blends 120 years of tradition with a most modern and forward-thinking approach to 21st Century education.
We pride ourselves on providing an atmosphere where every child is known personally and is both individually challenged and supported so that they maximise their potential within, and outside of, the classroom.
Our boarding houses provide a 'home from home' family feel where boarders enjoy countless activities which forge friendships for life.Our leavers go on to study at the most prestigious universities both in the UK and abroad.
They are recognised to be well-rounded, ambitious, interesting and engaging young people who have benefited greatly from the responsibility we regularly give them to lead others in our school community.
We are reknown for our strong sports performance and for a high level of provision in music and drama.
We also take full advantage of our wonderful location being only five minutes from the beach, on the doorstep of national parks and historic York.
Secondary Success
Improve your child's English skills and life skills to tackle future challenges
Improve your child's English skills for academic success in AEC era.
This course is for secondary students between the ages of 12-17 with the aim to improve all English skills (listening, speaking, reading and writing) and become more confident in using English for study and everyday use.
The lessons are based on real-life situations, relevant to student’s learning needs and interests.
On this course your child will
learn English with our qualified teachers in a fun and child-friendly environment
participate in classroom activities that encourage problem solving, independence and confidence
take part in project tasks to activate the language and develop essential life skills, e.g. team work, cooperation and digital literacy, and create a portfolio of work to motivate their learning
regularly receive feedback on their progress through communication books, reports and parent-teacher meetings.
Course outcomes
improve speaking fluency and pronunciation by practising language in communicative tasks.
discover grammar and vocabulary by noticing language in context and finding out rules for yourself.
develop listening strategies to understand English speakers in a variety of real-life situations.
learn how to complete a range of reading tasks and activate the reading skills needed for study and everyday use.
improve writing fluency, planning and editing skills to be better able to write general and academic texts in English.
activate useful learning skills, e.g. note taking, skimming and scanning, to prepare for future academic studies.
Course information
COURSE OBJECTIVES
We aim to provide opportunities for our students to practise using English both in and outside of classroom which will help them to do better at school and perform their best in English exams.
COURSE DURATION
One 2-hour lesson per week
Semesters start in May and October
COURSE LEVELS
Secondary Success 1
Secondary Success 2
Secondary Success 3
Secondary Success 4
Secondary Success 5
Secondary Success 6
Secondary Success 7
FIND OUT MORE ABOUT THIS COURSE
Send a message to our English course consultants to find out more about this course.
Going Global
Our call for proposals is now open.
Going Global is a conference for leaders in international education to debate the future of further and higher education.
Going Global 2019
13–15 May 2019, Berlin, Germany
Conference theme: "Knowledge Diplomacy and the Digital World: Does international tertiary education have a role?"
Call for proposals and registration
Type Description	Deadline
Individual contributor	Respond to the Going Global 2019 theme in one of the sessions as a presenter, panellist, table host, or chair.
Wednesday 10 October 2018
Full session	An innovative and interactive session with a diverse range of speakers from around the world.
Wednesday 10 October 2018
Workshop facilitator	An interactive participant-led workshop encompassing the conference theme or subtheme.
Wednesday 10 October 2018
Poster	A poster to be displayed at the conference to engage with the theme and discuss with delegates.
Opens Monday 15 October 2018 to 21 January 2019
Delegate Registration opens on Monday 21 January 2019 and closes on Friday 3 May at 9.00 GMT.
(Early bird discount applies when registering before Friday 22 March 2019.)
Sherborne International
Find more information about Sherborne International
Sherborne International
CITY/TOWN: SHERBORNE
REGION: SOUTHERN ENGLAND
www.sherborne-international.org
Sherborne International is unique.
It was established in 1977 to prepare students from non-British educational backgrounds so that they could function successfully in traditional British Boarding schools.
Typically these boys and girls spend one year at the School before moving on to a traditional British boarding school where the majority of students are British.
Sherborne International has three major tasks:
Concentrated improvement in spoken and written English;
Academic preparation in English in the full range of curriculum subjects;
A good introduction to the study skills necessary for success in the British school system.
The arrangements of the School are designed to achieve these tasks.
Classes are small, with a maximum of eight students.
All teachers are experienced specialists in their own subject, and also have additional EFL training in teaching that subject to overseas students.
The School prides itself on its excellent EFL and GCSE/IGCSE results.
Such excellent results help most students to enter good English Independent schools should they wish to continue their education in the United Kingdom.
Students also have the opportunity to sit a range of Cambridge University English examinations, as well as the IELTS test, if appropriate.
The School has a maximum of 160 students.
The teaching facilities include modern classrooms, eight science laboratories, two computer centres, an art studio, a well-resourced library together with a multi-purpose assembly hall.
The whole School benefits from wireless internet access.
Sherborne International uses the extensive sporting and musical facilities at Sherborne School, including a 25 metre indoor swimming pool, fitness centre, tennis courts, dance studio and sports hall, and extensive sports’ fields.
Sherborne International has gained an outstanding reputation for providing the very best start to British independent education for children from overseas.
Through a carefully supervised programme of study, students gain a sound working knowledge of the main British curriculum subjects, such as Mathematics, the Sciences and Humanities.
The timetable provides between 27 and 30 hours of lessons each week with a minimum of nine hours supervised private study.
The School has high standards of discipline and pastoral care.
There are five boarding houses, where students live in single or twin bedrooms.
(There are two dormitories of 4 beds for junior in the girls’ Boarding House.)
There are separate Houses for girls and for junior boys (11 - 13 year olds).
Each house has its own resident staff and medical matron who are there to supervise and care for the students.
All meals are taken in the School dining room where a variety of freshly cooked food is on offer, including snacks at break time and the occasional afternoon tea with cakes.
Most weekends have a busy leisure programme that ensures students are fully occupied on Saturday and Sunday, and evenings are also well structured.
Success stories
Here are just a few examples of our work in Thailand that would not have been possible without the support of our partners;
Ministry of Education
In Education, we have a strong relationship with the Ministry of Education.
We always gain trust from Ministry of Education and we are one of their strategic partners in different areas.
Thailand Creative and Design Centre (TCDC)
During the past 6 years, a number of high-profile exhibitions have been presented as a result of a partnership between TCDC and the British Council Thailand to support the creative industry.
True Corporation Public Company Limited
With a strong track record in contributing to society at large, True Corporation has partnered with the British Council on a variety of projects to create economic and social impact.
Thai International Education Consultants Association (TIECA)
Formed in 1990 as The Educational Consultants Group of Thailand by a group of 12 educational consultants with the aims to share their expertise in the field of international education and
Assumption University
With strong commitment to education, Assumption University (ABAC) offers high-quality and internationalised education at the undergraduate, post-graduate and doctoral levels and joint pro
Department of International Trade Promotion (DITP)
In 2012, British Council and the Department of International Trade Promotion (DITP) jointly presented the Young Creative Entrepreneur (YCE) Awards.
The PTA of Chulalongkorn Demonstration School
The British Council Thailand has been trusted by The Parent - Teacher Association of Chulalongkorn University Demonstration School (Satit Chula) to deliver our expertise in English teachi
Our Assessment
Assessement
Bring the world's English experts to your institution.
Our Assessment
Students are assessed and graded through the following means:
Modular progress tests
Project tasks
Speaking (continuous assessment)
Homework
Effort and participation
If students require formal, independent assessment then our Examinations team can assist in organising tests such as IELTS, iGCSE or Aptis.
In each case, our approach to assessment is positive, professional and fair.
Oxford Business College
Oxford Business College
Find more information about Oxford Business College
City/Town: Oxford
Region: Southern England
Level of study:
Vocational and technical
Pathways to higher education
Undergraduate
Postgraduate taught course
English course
Oxford Business College is an independent education and training establishment specialising in a range of higher-level business management courses, offering those embarking on their careers a route to degree, postgraduate or professional qualifications (awarded by Buckinghamshire New University and the University for the Creative Arts).
The qualifications that can be obtained include: Foundation Diplomas in Business Management, Engineering, and Law, which are designed to give international students a pathway to British universities; the BTEC Higher National Certificate in Business (level 4, the equivalent of the first year at university); and BTEC Higher National Diploma in Business (level 5, corresponding to the first two years at university); plus a BA (Hons) in Business Management, a BA (Hons) in Business Management with Foundation Year, and an International MBA, all of which are awarded by the University for the Creative Arts and Bucks New University.
In addition, our Business English Language Preparation programme (BELP) is offered for durations of anything from one week to nine months.
Whether students are looking for a short break to improve their English, or an intensive programme to prepare them for their next academic or professional step, the BELP can be tailored to suit all.
The College is situated in the centre of Oxford, and therefore in a perfect position for students to enjoy all the tremendous attributes this global capital of education has to offer.
Scholarships and special offers:
On spot admissions with special scholarship schemes
British Council IELTS Prize
Launched in 2011, the prize aims to support outstanding students to fulfil their dreams of studying abroad.
In the past two years, a total of 10 students succeeded to get into their dream universities in different countries including UK, US and France.
The 2016 IELTS prize is now open for application.
Please visit the page below for details.
Ruthin School
Find more information about Ruthin School
Ruthin School
City/Town: Ruthin
Region: Wales
www.ruthinschool.co.uk
Ruthin School is a small boarding school, with a history of over 700 years.
With around 360 pupils, aged 11-19, it focuses on academic excellence - with the majority of pupils gaining entry to the universities ranked in the top 20 in the UK.
All students live in boarding houses, looked after by boarding staff and teachers.
Ruthin is located in the beautiful Vale of Clwyd, with stunning countryside surrounding the School.
A perfect setting for study -- as well as many extra-curricular activities for the students to enjoy
David Paget
Speaker’s profile
David Paget
Senior Lecturer in Drawing for Games & Animation, Teesside University
I'm currently a Lecturer in Drawing for Games and Animation in the School of Computing, focusing on Concept Art and Drawing based modules.
I'm also a Teesside University graduate with a degree in Character Animation.
After graduating, I moved into concept art, focusing on the gaming and film industries.
In the past, I've worked both as a freelance artist and as an 'in house' artist for games studios.
I've held my current post as a Lecturer for just over a year now, as well as working as a freelance artist.
As a freelance artist some of my clients have included:
Legendary Pictures
Insomniac Games
Games Workshop
Double Eleven
Atomhawk Design
Hook Pictures
Bloom Studios
Kuro Dragon
My portfolio can be viewed on my website http://davidpaget.co.uk
Brooke House College
Find more information about Brooke House College
Brooke House College
City/Town: Market Harborough
Region: Central England
www.brookehouse.com
Brooke House College is an international independent College for students (aged from 11 and enrolled before they are 19) wishing to undertake their general education within a British curriculum; GCSEs, A levels and University Foundation Programme, with a large range of academic subject choice, all supported with English and IELTs preparation classes.
Brooke House College also has a successful Football Academy and Motorsport Academy giving students the option to develop their sporting interest alongside their academic achievements and has an English Summer Programme (July and August) for ages 10-17.
A family run, friendly, caring, co-educational College who work closely with students to achieve their full potential, desired goals and progress to excellent UK and worldwide Universities, many listed in the top 25 University list and/or Russell Group Universities.
With over 235 students in an average class size of 12, allows for a high level of personal academic and pastoral attention.
The campus is situated within the safe, historical town of Market Harborough, only 55 minutes north of London by train.
The college owns a wide range of good quality boarding houses, age suitable and each with experienced, professional boarding staff who live alongside the students full time and act as their house parent.
University of Liverpool
University of Liverpool
Find more information about the University of Liverpool
City/Town: Liverpool
Region: Northwest England
Level of study:
Undergraduate
Postgraduate taught course
Postgraduate research (e.g. MPhil, PhD)
The University of Liverpool is an inspirational centre of learning where we aim to support our students as they become highly employable, creative, and culturally rich graduates, with the capacity to find employment that will enable them to be agents for change in a connected world.
Associated with nine Nobel Laureates, the University is recognised for its high-quality teaching and research.
Our research collaborations extend worldwide and address many of the grand challenges facing mankind today.
Ranked 20th in the UK for research power with seven subjects in the top 10 UK’s Research Excellence Framework.
(both Chemistry and Computer Science ranked number 1 in the UK for 4* and 3 *research THE 2014)
We provide over 7,700 international students with an amazing, life-changing university experience in this energetic, creative and beautiful city.
More than 75% of our students receive a First or 2:1 degree.
Anglia Ruskin University
Anglia Ruskin University
Find more information about Anglia Ruskin University
City/Town: Cambridge
Region: East of England
Level of study:
Pathways to higher education
Undergraduate
Postgraduate taught course
Postgraduate research (e.g. MPhil, PhD)
English course
Anglia Ruskin University is one of the top 350 institutions in the world (Times Higher Education's World University Rankings 2019), and welcomes students from over 185 countries to study there.
The University is spread across campuses in Cambridge and Chelmsford.
The University has impressive state-of-the-art facilities and has invested £100 million over the past years.
It houses one of only nine optometry schools in the UK, and has its own public art gallery - The Ruskin Gallery.
It also has a new Science Centre, a Law School Law Clinic, mock law courts, computer gaming suites and 24/7 libraries complete with books and online learning resources.
Students have the opportunity to seek careers advice during their time learning through the University's Employability Service, which offers everything from information on writing a stand-out CV to succeeding in an interview.
This can be done face-to-face with an advisor, while additional help is also available online.
Anglia Ruskin University offers students support in a wide range of areas.
These include a dedicated service for those with a disability, including a mental health condition, medical condition or specific learning difficulties.
There is also a counselling service, advice on finances, and an International office focusing on the queries and needs of overseas students.
During their time studying towards their degree, students are encouraged to get involved in a club or society in their spare time, to meet new friends, gain another skill and add something different to their CV.
Students can also start their own to demonstrate their leadership skills.
Scholarships:
Up to £4,000 scholarships available.
myClass
Learn more about myClass, course details, packages, levels and sample lessons.
What is myClass?
myClass is a new, flexible way for you to develop your English.
With this new course, YOU are in control of your progress.
You can choose the lessons that best suit your interests and your schedule.
Teaching is 100% face-to-face because that’s how you learn best! To speed up your learning you will also have free access to fun interactive online language exercises to practice your English anytime anywhere.
Convenience
When registering for the course you will be given a personalised logon to our booking website.
This means that you can manage your courses and track your progress anytime, anywhere.
More flexibility, greater choice
You select the class date, time, topic and even teacher online according to your preference and schedule.
What’s more, you can also change your selection up to 24 hours* before the lesson begins.
Value for money
You choose the course package according to your budget and language needs.
-Buy more and pay less!
Package	Hours	Validity (months)
60 lessons	90	12
40 lessons	60	6
20 lessons	30	3
myClub
Free membership of our exciting social programme with lots of opportunities to practise your English.
Partner with us
Our partners value our global reach, network and trusted brand.
We create innovative, high-performing joint programmes with partners worldwide.
Why partner with us?
Partnership is at the heart of everything we do at the British Council and it has been since we started in 1934.
We are driven by our mission to build trust and opportunity globally and we have ambitious goals that can only be achieved by working with others.
A partnership to us means combined and increased impact, innovation or influence.
Our ability to work at scale with partners places us in a unique position to develop new thinking.
We work with our partners to find innovative solutions to challenges, whether at a country or international level, leveraging our global networks, expertise and trust to help them achieve their goals.
Learn more about our partnership projects in Thailand
Regional English Training Centres
Regional English Training Centres
We aim to raise the level of English as a second/other language in Thailand and promote more widespread, higher quality teaching, learning and assessment of English.
Transnational Education
Thai-UK Transnational Education Programme
We foster collaborations with the government and the UK and increase university capacity in internationalisation, quality improvement and creating opportunities for mobility and exchange.
Newton Fund Institutional Links
Newton Fund
Building and strengthening UK-Thailand research and partnerships
FameLab Thailand National Competition 2017
FameLab and School Lab
FameLab and School Lab We are building international networks of skilled science communicators and strengthening the science and society interface by creating a platform for students and young adults to become the new face of science in the internationally recognised science communication competition, FameLab and School Lab.
Bhukram
Arts and Creative Industry
To advance Thailand’s creative economy by utilising the world-leading innovation and creativity of the UK to make a positive contribution to people, society and the arts sector in Thailand.
English course enquiry
Get more information about how to register an English course and be among the first who gets updates and offers.
Complete this form and we will be in touch.
Alternatively, visit one of our centres in Thailand or call us on: 02 657 5678, 053 242 103
* Name
* Surname
* Telephone number
* Email
* Which course type are you interested in?
* Where would you like to study?
Please let me know your convenient time to reach you
* How did you know about us?
British Council collects your personal data to enable any requests arising from this submission to be processed, including contacting you to progress your request; we will not share it with anyone else.
By clicking submit you confirm that you agree to our terms and conditions (contract).
British Council would like to use the information you provide to send details of activities, services and events (including social events) which we think are of interest.
I would like to receive details.
You may unsubscribe at any time by following the unsubscribe link in our communications.
We will process your personal information based on your consent.
Data Protection
British Council complies with data protection law in the UK and laws in other countries that meet internationally accepted standards.
You have the right to ask for a copy of the information we hold on you, and the right to ask us to correct any inaccuracies in that information.
If you have concerns about how we have used your personal information, you also have the right to complain to a privacy regulator.
For detailed information, please refer to the privacy section of our website, or contact your local British Council office.
We will keep your information for a period of 6 months from the time of collection.
University of York
Find more information about the University of York
City/Town: York
Region: North Central
Level of study:
Pathways to higher education
Undergraduate
Postgraduate taught course
Postgraduate research (e.g. MPhil, PhD)
Pre-sessional English
The University of York is one of the success stories in UK higher education.
Since the foundation in 1963, the university has powered the way to a consistently high ranking in the UK and is one of just six post-war universities to have appeared in the world top 100.
Furthermore, the university holds a Gold Teaching Excellence Framework award, showing consistently in delivering outstanding teaching, student learning and outcomes.
A member of the elite Russell Group of universities, University of York is a dynamic, research-intensive university committed to the development of life-saving discoveries and new technologies to tackle some of the most pressing global challenges.
The university is one of the highest ranking universities for 4-star world-leading research and top 10 university for research impact.
There are now over 30 academic departments and research centres, over 4,000 staff and the student body has expanded to nearly 16,000 from 150 countries.
Located within walking distance of York city centre, the university's safe and attractive Heslington campus is home to the nine colleges and most of the departments.
There are also several departments located in the city centre at the historic King's Manor.
In recent years, University of York 500m campus expansion has seen the opening of seven new buildings, increasing the capacity for student numbers and providing more world-class facilities for the 21st century.
Sustainability plays a key role in this ambitious development.
Over 116,000 graduates from 131 countries are members of York Alumni Association, which supports active alumni groups and professional networks around the world.
Former students of the University include Editor of The Times John Witherow; former Director-General of the BBC Greg Dyke; authors Jung Chang and Helen Dunmore; comedian Harry Enfield, and ten MPs.
University of Wolverhampton
University of Wolverhampton
Find more information about the University of Wolverhampton
City/Town: Wolverhampton
Region: Central England
Level of study:
Undergraduate
Postgraduate taught course
Postgraduate research (e.g. MPhil, PhD)
English course
The University of Wolverhampton is a global university, providing students with first class education for over 190 years.
From our central UK location, we provide opportunities to our students from home or abroad, in the UK and in countries around the world – helping you to develop the knowledge, skills and confidence to thrive in the global economy.
Each year, we welcome many hundreds of international students from over 100 nations to the University, who join us to study at one of our UK campuses or partner institutions overseas.
Wherever you are studying with us, we put you – our students – first in our efforts to provide the best possible student experience, as well as improving your overall life chances and employability.
Following the recent QS audit, the University scored four stars overall.
We also scored five stars for teaching, five stars for employability, two stars for research, five stars for internationalisation, four stars for facilities, three stars for innovation and five stars for inclusiveness.
We have award-winning teaching, state-of-the-art facilities, international partnerships, strong business links and world-leading research.
With 300 undergraduate courses and over 200 postgraduate options mean you’ll find something to match your needs and ambitions.
T: +44 (0)1902 322474
E: International@wlv.ac.uk
W: wlv.ac.uk/international
Scholarships and special offers:
Prompt Payment Discount
Vice Chancellors International Scholarship
Sign up to a newsletter
Every fortnight, we send out a newsletter highlighting studying opportunities in the UK as well as updating about English and exams services.
Once every two months, the Arts and Creative Industries team sends a newsletter hilighting arts projects in Thailand and the UK, including the latest opportunities for creative and social entrepreneurs as and when these arise.
Fill in the details below to sign up to one of our email newsletters:
*First name
*Surname
*Mobile
*Email
*Branch
To subscribe to a newsletter, until further notice, please tick the box and press the submit button:
The Arts and the creative industries
English and exams
Study in the UK
Education
Society
You may unsubscribe at any time by following the unsubscribe link in the newsletter.
We will process your personal information based on your consent.
Data Protection
British Council complies with data protection law in the UK and laws in other countries that meet internationally accepted standards.
You have the right to ask for a copy of the information we hold on you, and the right to ask us to correct any inaccuracies in that information.
If you have concerns about how we have used your personal information, you also have the right to complain to a privacy regulator.
For detailed information, please refer to the privacy section of our website, or contact your local British Council office.
We will keep your information for a period of 7 years from the time of collection.
LUCTON SCHOOL
Based in rural Herefordshire and established in 1708, we are one of the top performing and oldest boarding schools in our region, attracting international students from Asia, the Middle East, Africa and Europe.
Small classes, talented and committed teachers, a friendly atmosphere and a wonderful rural location combine to provide an outstanding, all-round educational experience at Lucton.
An Oxford University admissions tutor commented that the typical thing about Lucton students is that there is no typical student-they are very much individuals!
What they do have in common is that they leave Lucton confident in their strengths and abilities and ready to embrace opportunities.
We have exceptional facilities for sport including Swimming, Rugby, Basketball and Horse Riding, with some of our students representing Great Britain in international competitions.
In addition to sport, our boarders enjoy a wealth of weekend activities both cultural and social.
Offering a wide range of GCSE and A-level subjects, Lucton has a strong academic record and an established tradition of getting the best possible results from each pupil.
We accept mixed ability students, and in recent years A-level results have averaged 80% A-C grades, with all leavers gaining places at their first choice universities.
Facilities include junior and senior libraries, science laboratories, ICT rooms, a design and technology workshop, sports hall, tennis courts, indoor swimming pool, many games fields and an Equestrian Centre.
Senior students enjoy their own sixth-form centre, including library, IT suite, comfortable common room and quiet study area.
University of Warwick
Find More Information about University of Warwick
University of Warwick
City/Town: Coventry
Region: Central England
www.warwick.ac.uk
Warwick is a world-leading university with the highest academic and research standards.
Born out of boldness, imagination and collaboration, from the moment the first students arrived in 1965, we’ve been forward-focused.
We’re one of the UK’s top 10 universities, 54th in the world (QS World University Rankings 2019), and in the world’s top 100 universities for graduate employability (The QS Graduate Employability Rankings 2018).
The 2014 Research Excellence Framework placed us 7th among UK research universities, meaning you’ll learn alongside academics at the cusp of new thinking.
In 2016/17 we allocated over £36 million of scholarship funding to postgraduate students, helping outstanding individuals to deepen their knowledge, and reach the next level of their career.
Our specialist international team will support you from application through to graduation.
The Welcome to Warwick programme will help you and fellow international students from over 150 countries feel at home on campus before term even begins.
Our campus also offers you access to a great transport network if you want to travel around the UK or Europe while you’re here.
You’ll have the potential to go anywhere if you bring your energy and determination to succeed.
What that success looks like is up to you.
Why partner with us
British Council
Bring the world's English experts to your institution.
World Authority in English
We are a world leader in English language teaching.
Our global network of teaching centres reaches more than 500,000 students each year.
With more than 70 years of English language teaching experience around the world, we know how to teach English efficiently and how to support our students in making progress more quickly and effectively.
Proven Methodology We believe that students learn best through doing real-life classroom tasks with the support of experienced, fully-qualified teachers.
We value each learner, and our professional teachers always reflect on their students’ development throughout the courses, providing ongoing feedback and advice as required.
With our proven teaching techniques, students get the most from their courses and improve their English language skills to reach their full potential.
UK-qualified English instructors
All British Council teachers have:
a first degree
a Cambridge Certificate in Teaching English as a Foreign language (or equivalent)
substantial teaching experience in a variety of teaching contexts
extensive knowledge of British culture and the British education system.
a good understanding of the Thai education system
Many also have a second degree (Masters), a Cambridge Diploma in Teaching English as a Foreign Language (or equivalent) and experience in fields outside of teaching.
We are committed to ongoing professional development and support our instructors through regular in-house training, lesson observations and funding for further study.
A Teacher Teaching
Our aims
We aim for every child to:
study in a safe, secure and supportive environment
communicate clearly and confidently in English
express themselves creatively and imaginatively
develop study strategies that will enhance their academic performance
establish a solid foundation in grammatical structures and writing
be encouraged to take responsibility for their own learning
Aptis - Assess English Skills
For more information please email:aptis@britishcouncil.or.th
In this section
What is Aptis?
Aptis efficiently and accurately assesses the English skills in your organisation for speaking, writing, reading and listening.
What are your assessment needs?
Aptis helps you make informed decisions on recruitment, workforce development and training by providing reliable and accurate results about the English skills of current employees.
How to use aptis
The Aptis test offers a flexible testing solution that meets your business needs.
Taking the Aptis test
Aptis can assess your English skills in all four language skills – speaking, writing, reading and listening and also incorporates a grammar and vocabulary test.
University of Essex
University of Essex
Find more information about the University of Essex
City/Town: Colchester, Essex
Region: Easthern England
Level of study:
Undergraduate
Postgraduate taught course
Postgraduate research (e.g. MPhil, PhD)
English course
Established 50 years ago, the University of Essex has gained a global reputation for pioneering research which helps change lives.
We provide a research-led education which equips our students with the curiosity and capability for personal and professional success.
We’re a university where curiosity prevails, and where exploring new ways of thinking and pushing boundaries, isn’t just encouraged, it’s expected.
We were named University of the Year at the Times Higher Education Awards 2018.
We’re proud to be Gold rated in the Teaching Excellence Framework 2017 and ranked in the top 30 in The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide.
We're also in the top 25 for research quality in the Good University Guide and top 15 for the sixth year running in The National Student Survey for overall student satisfaction (2018, overall student satisfaction, English mainstream universities*).
We're committed to two things: excellence in teaching and excellence in research.
We put student success at the heart of our mission, supporting every student from every background to achieve outstanding outcomes; preparing our students to thrive in their future lives.
We are also ideally located - less than one hour from London, the UK’s most exciting city, but with a much lower cost of living, and it has become the choice of many Thai students when studying in the UK.
Living and studying in the UK
Learn more about living and studying in the UK
With diverse landscapes, a vibrant cultural offer and the chance to make friends from all over the world, time spent in the UK will be life-changing.
Find out what it’s like to live and study in the UK and get ready to enjoy the experience.
The UK regions
The UK is made up of four countries – England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland - each of them with their own distinct cultures and places to explore.
From bustling cities to snow-capped mountains, rolling green hills to highlands and islands, the UK is beautiful and exploring is a must.
Its relatively small size and good transport links mean that you can see a lot while you are here.
Student life
The UK offers an amazing student life that can be tailored to suit your own tastes.
You’ll find an endless number of ways to enjoy yourself, learn new things and make friends.
At the beginning of term universities hold a ‘Welcome Week’, often called ‘Freshers’ Week’, to welcome new students.
During this time university clubs and societies hold events and parties to look for new members.
It’s a great way to find out what's on and join anything that interests you.
Most universities have a huge selection of clubs and societies, so there are activities to suit everyone.
Whether you want to discuss politics, learn how to bake, join a band or go scuba diving, you’re sure to find something that appeals to you.
As well as meeting like-minded people and having loads of fun, joining clubs and societies can be a great way to gain experience and add more soft skills to your CV.
Many societies offer opportunities to organise events, raise money for charity or do some volunteering, all of which are sure to stand you in good stead when you start applying for jobs.
The UK weather
The UK is often associated with rain, but this is because the weather can be unpredictable.
The rain doesn't come all in one season – it can come at any time of year, and on any day.
You might experience beautiful sunshine, blustering winds and drizzling rain – all in one afternoon!
But with the right clothes and the right attitude, you can enjoy the UK, whatever the weather.
There’s not much better than lazing by the river in the sunshine, dancing in the mud at a music festival, or heading out for a snowball fight.
All religions welcome
Although the UK’s official religion is Christianity, the UK is a multi-faith society where other religions are widely welcomed.
In the UK, it is against the law to discriminate against anyone because of their race, nationality, or religion.
-You will be respected for your own beliefs and will be expected to respect other people’s beliefs in return.
Study UK: Discover You
Do you want to learn more about living and studying in the UK?
If so then visit Study UK: Discover You - the British Council’s official website about studying in the UK for international students.
WOODHOUSE GROVE SCHOOL
Founded in 1812 and situated on a beautiful 70 acre campus, Woodhouse Grove provides a first class all round education for boys and girls.
Conveniently located close to major air, railway and motorway networks, the 750 pupils at Woodhouse Grove (11-18) benefit from small class sizes, first class facilities, and a breadth of opportunity that readily allow us to fulfil the school's stated aims.
We are also proud that each year our pupils accepted places at Oxford and Cambridge along with numerous Russell group universities.
Our boarders enjoy modern, well equipped boarding houses, a secure and caring environment, a 'home from home' atmosphere, and an ever changing range of weeknight and weekend activities which contribute to the enjoyment of being a boarder at the Grove.
Academically ambitious and academically sensitive, the progress of each pupil is monitored by heads of year in school and by a houseparent with academic house tutors in the boarding house where regular meetings take place to support, advise and encourage.
Our international students are drawn from all over the world and are mentored by English boarding and day pupils to help them integrate and encourage wider use of the English language.
We are a school where traditional values are central to our warm and friendly community.
Wherever a child's ability lies, we will seek to nurture and encourage its development on their route to becoming a "Grovian".
How to prepare
Whether you’re studying for your own exams, or a teacher keen to help your students get better grades, we can support you.
The British Council offers all the support and advice you need – from online study guides to library services.
We have a range of useful tools and resources for you, whether you’re a student or teacher.
And we can help you with the following simple tips
Famelab
Winner of FameLab Thailand 2019
Winner of FameLab Thailand 2019
Congratulations to the winner - Napat Tandikul (Just)!
FameLab is one of the biggest science communication competitions in the world.
If you think you can explain a scientific idea or research to a general audience, in just three minutes, then why not enter?
You could become the new face of science, represent your country at the FameLab International final in the UK, and open doors to global opportunities in science communication!
Stay tuned for FameLab Thailand 2020!
Find out more
Famelab Talking Science 2018
About FameLab
FameLab International, finding the new face of the world's best science communicator.
Enter the Competition
If you are aged 18 or above and think you can explain a scientific concept in just three minutes, you could win some fantastic prizes in Famelab.
Preparation for audition
You will be judged according to the golden rules of the 3C’s, here’s some info to make sure you’re prepared for the competition.
Watch the competition live
Click here to watch FameLab 2019.
Our Partners
Find out more about our partners who help make this competition possible in Thailand.
Brunel University London
Brunel University London
Find more information about Brunel University London
City/Town: London
Region: Greater London
Level of study:
Undergraduate
Postgraduate taught course
Postgraduate research (e.g. MPhil, PhD)
Brunel is a modern campus-based university providing a world class education.
We have invested £400 million on the campus redevelopment which includes; state-of-the-art teaching facilities, 4,500 rooms on campus and Olympic standard sports facilities.
Brunel is based in a fantastic location in West London, with excellent transport links.
Brunel’s mission is to combine academic rigour with the practical, entrepreneurial and imaginative approach pioneered by its namesake, Isambard Kingdom Brunel
Rankings
13th in the UK for Marketing (The Complete University Guide 2016)
Ranked 1st in London, 4th in UK and 29th in the World for top 100 universities founded in the last 50 years – Times Higher Education (THE)
6th in the UK for Engineering (US News and World Report Global Rankings 2016)
Ranked 4th in the UK for Art and Design – (The Guardian, University Guide 2014)
Scholarships
Brunel offers a range of scholarships, including our International Scholarships, which entitle students to 15% off their Tuition fees.
Courses
We provide a wide range of courses at undergraduate, postgraduate and research level in Business, Social Sciences, Law, Economics, I.T, Design, Engineering, Health Care and many more.
We also offer Foundation and Pre-Master’s programmes in Engineering, Business, I.T, Law and Economics and Finance.
Employability
At Brunel we provide an award winning placement and careers office, offering a dedicated international adviser and international careers fairs.
Outstanding Support
We provide excellent support for our international students including pre-sessional and general English courses to improve your academic skills, a free orientation programme and Immigration and visa support.
Itim Parit Wacharasindhu
Special guest – Itim Parit Wacharasindhu
Parit graduated in political science and economics from the University of Oxford and was the first Thai to be voted President of the Oxford Union or the President of the Oxford University Student Organisation.
Parit is also a former King's Scholarship student from Eton College, the famous school in EnglanMeet Parit on Saturday, 6th October at noon with a special seminar at the Study UK Schools and Colleges Fair.
Listen to the experience at a boarding school in the UK.
Get preparation tips for university entrance along with many more fun experiences.
Attend the launch of Inspire! Scholarships with the opportunity to experience life as a student in a school and a college in the UK.
Invigilation services
British Council Thailand provides invigilation services for students registered with UK schools, colleges and universities, who need to take examinations but are not able to travel to the UK.
Each educational institution has strict regulations about how examinations are conducted.
-We ensure that all regulations are followed and all requirements are met.
We receive and store papers from schools, colleges or universities and provide test rooms with invigilators for examinations and return the answer scripts to the UK by courier.
In this section
University of London
The British Council is the official invigilation services provider for the University of London - administering examinations for students who are registered with the university.
All other universities and institutions
We also offer administering examinations for students who are taking courses with overseas colleges and universities, who need to take examinations but are not able to travel abroad.
Boarding schools
We provide invigilation services for students who would like to sit an admission test for all boarding schools.
KINGS COLLEGES
Kings was founded in 1957 in Bournemouth, and for over 60 years we have been at the forefront of quality education.
Over the decades many thousands of students have benefitted from a Kings education.
At Kings we encourage and enable each student to be the best they can be, and to set their ambitions as high as possible.
This is why our students win places at every leading university in the UK.
Kings Colleges students have been accepted by every UK Top 20 university, and this year saw the number of A* grades achieved being 75% above the national average.
We now have 4 school locations - Bournemouth, Brighton, Oxford and London - all offering Pre-Sessional English, GCSEs, A-Levels, and the Advanced Level Foundation Programme, along with specialist courses including Medical School Preparation, Oxbridge Preparation, Art Foundation, and Law Foundation.
We take accommodation and welfare very seriously and students studying with us can choose to live in our student residences (single or shared suite rooms), or in host family accommodation.
Our students succeed because we know what universities are looking for, we ensure very small classes (4-12 students per class), we guarantee highly qualified teachers, we achieve excellent results, we support every student, and we provide professional university guidance.
University of Aberdeen
Find more information about the University of Aberdeen
City/Town: Aberdeen
Region: Scotland
Level of study:
Pathways to higher education
Undergraduate
Postgraduate taught course
Postgraduate research (e.g. MPhil, PhD)
English course
Aberdeen is the fifth oldest university in the UK with an academic reputation spanning more than 500 years, and we are pleased to announce that Aberdeen is now listed in the top 150 universities in the world.
There has never been a more exciting time to embark on studies at the University of Aberdeen.
We have taken bold new steps to further enhance the student experience on offer at Aberdeen and our aim is to develop the learning and support services that we provide to ensure that our students have the opportunities to gain the skills to succeed in the global market place.
This includes the completion of our Olympic standard sports centre, the opening of our new flagship library for the 21st century, and the implementation of a new curriculum for students.
The University has taken significant steps to modernise the structure, content, delivery and flexibility of our degree programmes to make sure that Aberdeen graduates leave the University academically excellent and intellectually flexible, whilst also being critical thinkers, effective communicators, and active citizens prepared for the challenges of the 21st century.
The University has a student population of around 14,500, and welcomes 120 different nationalities to its campus.
Over 550 undergraduate degree programmes and over 140 taught Master postgraduate programmes are available across the areas of Arts & Humanities, Social Sciences, Education, Engineering, Law, Medicine, and Sciences.
Interview: Dr. Wananit FameLabber 2016
Talk Like a FameLabber
DR. WANANIT JOINED THE COMPETITION LAST YEAR AND MADE IT INTO THE TOP GROUP OF TEN FINALISTS.
LET'S HEAR MORE FROM HER!
PLEASE INTRODUCE YOURSELF – ROLES OF WOMEN IN SCIENCE
My name is Wananit Wimuttisuk, but most people know me as May.
I obtained my Ph.D. in Biochemistry from Brown University in the U.S.
I have been working as a researcher at the National Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology in Thailand for the past nine years.
My research focuses on the reproductive maturation of the black tiger shrimp, which is an important aquaculture export of Thailand.
I always loved science as a child, and now, aside from my role as a researcher, I also volunteer at the Children’s Science Camp.
I get to interact with children at elementary school and high school and hope to be able to inspire them to love science and pursue a career in it, just like I did.
TELL US ABOUT THE TOPIC YOU PRESENTED IN FAMELAB’S FINAL ROUND.
WHAT INSPIRED YOU TO TALK ABOUT IT?
TELL US ABOUT HOW YOU PREPARED YOUR STORY AND PROPS.
During the final round of FameLab, I talked about how bacteria can become drug resistant.
I chose this topic because antibiotic resistance has become a major problem all over the world.
There are patients who have contracted a “superbug” which has multiple drug resistant genes, which means it cannot be killed by any antibiotics available.
If we continue to misuse antibiotics and inadvertently create more antibiotic resistant bacteria, we will go back to a ‘dark age’ where there are no treatments available for any bacterial infections.
It is frightening to think that 50 million people could be killed by such superbugs within the next ten years if these trends continue.
Unfortunately, people in Thailand have very little awareness about antibiotic resistance, so I wanted to spread the message by talking about it in the final round of FameLab.
My strategy to make my talk as memorable as possible involved telling the story from the bacteria’s perspective.
I wanted to make it funny to make people remember, so I dressed as a strain of bacteria known as Staphylococcus aureus, which is yellow and round, just like the prop I had on my head.
My story was about the journey of an innocent bacterium that is exposed to antibiotics and has to fight for its survival by developing several drug resistant mechanisms.
My two other props were a sword, which symbolised an enzyme that cuts up antibiotics and stacks of papers that represent copies of antibiotic resistant genes that could be spread around to other bacteria.
But my final message was to tell the audience to use antibiotics only when necessary, and use them correctly so that bacteria cannot develop more antibiotic resistance.
WHY IS SCIENCE COMMUNICATION IMPORTANT?
As a scientist, I’ve always thought that science is this amazing wealth of knowledge that everyone should be fascinated by.
But unfortunately, not many people share this opinion.
One of the reasons is that science is often presented in a dry and academic way that makes people tune out.
So to reach the public, scientists must learn to tell a story in layman’s terms and maybe add humour or a punch-line to make the story memorable.
If we can grab the public’s interest in science, so many things could be accomplished with this.
We could use science to eliminate superstition or beliefs that may be harmful to people’s lives.
Students will finally understand the content in their class and be able to apply the knowledge to other projects, maybe even get inspired to become scientists too.
If government officials understand how important science is, more funding and research opportunities will be available, which will result in more scientific discoveries that can further improve the quality of life for all of society, and create jobs for people all over the world.
Take IELTS with the British Council
IELTS is the world’s most popular English language test.
If you’re looking to work, study or live abroad then taking an IELTS test can help you make that dream come true.
Why take IELTS?
Success starts with IELTS – it’s your end goal that matters.
IELTS is accepted as evidence of English language proﬁciency for higher education and global migration.
Which IELTS test should I take?
Choose the right test based on where you want to go and what you want to do.
Test dates, fees and locations
We offer tests in 10 locations across Thailand and Cambodia, at affordable prices.
Select your test date and book IELTS today.
Book your IELTS test
You can book your IELTS test with us online.
Prepare for your IELTS test
We have everything you need to prepare for your IELTS test, including a wide variety of free preparation materials.
Start preparing for your IELTS exam today.
Understand what happens on your test day
To help your IELTS test day go as smoothly as possible, we’ve put together some information and advice about what will happen on the day.
Your results – when and how to get your score
You can preview your IELTS results online 13 calendar days after the test on the online registration system.
Find out when and where you can get your IELTS results.
Test taker portal
You can access all the information relating to your IELTS test in the Test Taker Portal
IELTS cancellation and refund policy
Make sure you are familiar with our IELTS cancellation and refund policy – if you are looking to cancel your IELTS test, find out more here.
Kannika Leelapanyalert
Asst Prof Dr Kannika Leelapanyalert
University of Exeter, University of Manchester, University of Strathclyde,
Social Impact Award Finalist
Asst Prof Dr Kannika Leelapanyalert is currently teaching on a PhD programme at the College of Management, Mahidol University.
She contributes to the Thai community in the rural North Eastern area of Thailand.
She helps 300 Ban Mai Santi people in one of the poorest villages of Sung Noen, Nakhon Ratchasima to understand King Bhumibol Adulyadej’s sufficiency economy project: “The Application of Sufficiency Economy Philosophy to Alleviate Household Poverty of Ban Mmai Santi Villagers”.
Her project makes an impact on farmers and underprivileged society.
Her research has been published in a book entitled “Sufficiency for Sustainability”.
Asst Prof Dr Kannika Leelapanyalert helps the underprivileged in poor areas of Thailand, teaching them the necessary skills for a better life.
Nottingham Trent University
Nottingham Trent University
Find more information about Nottingham Trent University
City/Town: Nottingham
Region: Central England
Level of study:
Undergraduate
Postgraduate taught course
Postgraduate research (e.g. MPhil, PhD)
English course
Nottingham Trent University (NTU) is renowned for its excellence in teaching.
It’s a great time to join us as we’ve won some wonderful awards in the last few years.
We were named the Guardian 'University of the Year' 2019 .
This prestigious award comes after NTU received the coveted Times Higher Education University of the Year 2017 and the influential Times and Sunday Times Modern University of the year 2018
Nottingham is a great city to be a student.
There are over 60,000 students living here from all over the world.
Over 25,000 of these are studying at NTU.
Nottingham itself has everything a university city requires – an award-winning nightlife, culture and sports - and what's more, it's extremely budget-friendly.
It’s a welcoming city and we know you’ll make friends for life here.
We offer over 500 full-time courses and all of these courses offer opportunities to get practical experience in your subject.
Plus, a lot of our courses include an option to apply for a 1 year work placement.
You’ll be joining a truly international community at NTU – with students and staff from over 150 countries.
The University is focused on connecting globally and we want to create even more international opportunities for our students.
Thai-UK Transnational Education Programme
Transnational Education
Our objective
To help foster collaborations with the government and the UK and increase university and research capacity in internationalisation, quality improvement and creating opportunities for mobility and exchange.
Our approach
We work collaboratively with governments and education institutions to internationalise education in alignment with national policies and plans to support and develop existing processes.
Through our global network of partners and experts, we have access to the very latest educational expertise and practices, which we build into programmes to improve education outcomes in the countries we work in.
We promote a global perspective in education to enable young people to develop the skills and understanding their need to achieve success at school and improve their international competitiveness in the future.
Our impact
The Thai-UK Transnational Education Programme (TNE) was initiated by the British Council in Thailand with the nine national Thai research universities in 2015, in order to provide opportunities for Thai and UK higher education institutions to develop a joint or a double degree, offering opportunities for students from Thailand and neighbouring countries to gain UK qualiﬁcations in Thailand.
In addition, this programme helps to encourage internationalisation and teaching collaboration between Thailand and the UK.
Nine new joint or double degree programmes between Thailand and the UK are expected to be launched in August 2017.
Building on previous success, the Transnational Education Initiative is planned to be expanded to further Thai and UK higher education institutions from 2017 onward.
Recognising the potential of expanding TNE models in Thailand, the British Council in partnerships with the Office of Higher Education Commission, and nine research universities developed “UK- Thailand transnational Education development project” aiming to increase education mobility through university links which could lead to an internationalised environment and economic benefits for both countries.
Expected outcomes
Academic excellence: new collaboration will enhance international profile for the universities leading to a better economy and enable knowledge transfer which will potentially diffuse to other institutions across the region.
Research collaborations: through excellence academic link, it will help growing the population of high-quality postgraduate researchers and building research collaborations with academic partners, business and government sectors.
International opportunity and diversity for students: the collaborations will help expanding and increasing opportunities for students to gain an international experience and developing global citizens.
Testimonial
“Much appreciation goes out to British Council Thailand for bringing together interested and potential institutional partners to discuss possibilities in designing and creating a unique and suitable model of transnational education, at the same time disentangling the complexity of the process.
With all the hard work put in place, we now witness a seed growing beautifully into a ﬂower.”
Assoc. Prof. Bundit Thipakorn, Ph.D., Deputy Secretary General, Ofﬁce of the Higher Education Commission, Ministry of Education, Thailand
Courses and resources for teachers
Reach your teaching potential.
As the world’s English experts, we’re passionate about the English language and those who teach it.
We’re here to help you become a more effective English teacher.
Whether English is your first language or not, we have a wide range of online and face-to-face teaching courses and qualifications to help you advance your career.
We offer a wide range of teacher training courses, expert advice, teaching tips, free classroom materials, digital learning tools and a global support network.
Teaching English.
Supporting learning.
Testing proficiency.
Choose the best way to develop
Classroom
English for Teaching (EfT)
DescriptionThis is an in-service course for English language teachers who need to improve their English and their teaching skills.
LocationPriceLearn more
Content and Language Integrated Learning (CLIL) Essentials
DescriptionContent and Language Integrated Learning (CLIL) Essentials is for primary and secondary teachers who teach either English or other curricular subjects in English.
LocationPriceLearn more
Mobile app
Sounds Right
DescriptionInteractive phonetic sound chart for the iPadLocationApp (iOS)PriceFREE
LearnEnglish Kids: Phonics Stories (School Edition)
DescriptionInteractive storybook to help children practise phonetic soundsLocationApp (iOS)PriceFREE
Website
TeachingEnglish Online
DescriptionClassroom materials and resources for teachers of EnglishLocationPriceFREE
Ashbourne College
find more information about Ashbourne College
Ashbourne College
City/Town: London
www.ashbournecollege.co.uk
Ashbourne College is one of the top A-Level colleges in London, offering almost 30 A- Level subjects.
It is rated as 'Outstanding' by OFSTED, the government agency that inspects British schools.
Located in Kensington in the heart of London, Ashbourne is a fee-paying school renowned for its small class sizes and emphasis on individual attention.
International students are taught with British ones and get excellent A-Level grades, resulting in admissions to top British universities, including many for Medicine, Engineering, Mathematics, the Sciences, Business and Finance, as well as creative subjects such as Art and Fashion.
In 2017 and 2016, our A Level grades was 47% A* A and 51% A*A consecutively; with over 50% of our students to top Russell Group universities including nine graduates who secured their offer to Cambridge over the past 2 years.
The atmosphere is friendly and informal, with numerous extra-curricular activities as well as a very high academic standard.
Agachai Sumalee
Prof Dr Agachai Sumalee
University of Leeds
Social Impact Award Finalist
Prof Dr Agachai Sumalee has enjoyed a successful career as a world-class academic in the field of transportation, spending time in the UK, Hong Kong, and Thailand.
He has successfully transferred his knowledge of the concept and its technology to improve Thailand’s transportation system, including reforming the bus regulation system in Bangkok, the National GPS system for road safety, and the All-Thai taxi system, as well as serving on several government committees.
He recently led the implementation of the Taxi OK system to improve the quality of the taxi service in Bangkok.
Prof Dr Agachai Sumalee has played a leading role in shaping the transportation planning and policy in Thailand.
He is both academically and politically influential and currently advises the government on key transport related issues to improve road safety, the public transport service, and technology deployment in Thailand.
UK Further Education
UK Further Education
Not sure you’re ready for a Bachelor’s degree?
Interested in both academic and vocational courses?
Enrol at a UK further education college.
You can gain a UK Higher Education qualification such as a Higher National Diploma (HND), enhance your career prospects, and still top-up to a university degree later.
Why choose the UK further education?
If you would like to study in the UK and want to keep your options flexible, a course at a UK further education college could be the solution.
UK further education (FE) colleges are funded by the Government and offer access courses, higher education-level diplomas and in some cases full Bachelor’s degrees.
College qualifications are designed to equip students with job-specific skills that they can transfer into the workplace, boosting their employability.
They are designed in close partnership with employers, thereby ensuring a competitive edge and exposure to the latest industry.
UK college diplomas such as HNDs are often more affordable than other types of courses and offer articulation pathways to Bachelor’s degrees at a range of universities.
Completion of an HND is considered equivalent to the second year of a university degree in the UK.
In addition, many UK FE colleges also offer higher education qualifications in direct partnership with universities.
Studying at a college is a different experience to studying at university.
College class sizes are generally smaller than at university and you will probably be in more timetabled classes.
A college course is a great way to prepare for independent study and learning, progressing to university later if you choose to.
There are colleges located all across the UK, in big cities, small towns and rural areas.
If you would like more information about the UK’s further education offer, including locations of colleges, courses and entry requirements, please visit the following links:
Our global work in arts
Art exhibition
Art exhibition
Our Arts programme is designed to refresh international perceptions of the UK, create international partnerships and forge long-term cultural links.
In partnership with artists and institutions, our Arts teams create a range of events across visual art, music, design, drama, dance, film, and literature.
Our work in education
We have a strong relationship with the Ministry of Education and other educational agencies.
In addition to the trust we have built up with the government, we have also established invaluable partnerships within the business sector and with organisations who share the same commitment to sustainability.
In this section
Our work to support basic education
Thanks to our strong relationship with the Ministry of Education, we have been able to implement our initiatives and provide expertise to numerous projects countrywide.
Going Global Conference
Our work to support higher education and research sector
Learn how we support dialogue between higher education institutes from different countries and cultures.
This work enhances the global dimension of education and promotes global citizenship.
New entrepreneurship curriculum
Our work on skills
We have worked with the Office of the Vocational Education Commission (OVEC) to enhance the skills of young people and those working in the vocational sector.
Our work with teachers
Through our qualifications, training courses, networking events and resources, we support teacher trainers and educators to develop their English teaching and language skills
IGCSE and AS/A Level
Every year, two million people from 90 countries sit international exams through the British Council.
Our globally recognised qualifications help students to attend the best universities, find amazing career opportunities and set themselves up for a more rewarding life.
The examination board is Cambridge International Examinations (CIE).
Trusted by teachers, governments, employers and students, the British Council offers support and advice – and ensures the integrity of the exams system at every stage.
We will support you the whole way – from offering variety of subjects to registering your exams.
Use the links below to find the information you need.
How to register
Ready to register for a school exam?
Find out how to sign up for IGCSEs with the British Council.
We’ll guide you through the registration process.
© British Council
How to prepare
From sharing access to the best study guides and resources to providing past papers, the British Council can give you the support you need to get the qualifications you deserve.
Certificate of results
Your results
Getting your results can be one of the most exciting days of your life.
Find out when, where and how you will receive your international exam results from the British Council.
Preparation for audition
Joining live audition and one of our roadshows are the recommended steps in the FameLab journey.
Being able to dazzle the judges will secure your place in the national finals, where you will battle it out to represent your country at the FameLab international final in the UK.
In this section
FameLab 2018 Bangkok Audition
What happens at Audition and Competition?
We are accepting only VDO auditions this year - Get ready to apply!
Meet the FameLab trainer
Get to know more about the FameLab Thailand 2019 trainer - Dallas Campbell
Dr. Khaow FameLab Semi Final 2016
FameLab Thailand Hall of Fame
Get to know our previous winners of FameLab Thailand and learn from FameLab International winner!
Interview: Dr. Wananit FameLabber 2016
FameLab attracted many talented scientists who are passionate about explaining ideas in a fun, simple way to people who do not study science.
Educational and professional exams
British Council Thailand administers all stages of the process on behalf of the UK's major examination's boards, including registration, hosting, forwarding the papers to the UK, advising candidates of results, and presenting certificates.
We also provide invigilation services for students registered with overseas schools, colleges and universities, who need to take examinations.
UK university admission exams
British Council Thailand administers all stages of the process on behalf of the UK's major examination's boards.
The exams include BMAT, ELAT, STEP and TSA.
Invigilation services
British Council Thailand provides invigilation services for students registered with UK schools, colleges and universities, who need to take examinations but are not able to travel to the UK
Cardiff Metropolitan University
Find more information about Cardiff Metropolitan University
Cardiff Metropolitan University
City/Town: Cardiff
Region: Wales
www.cardiffmet.ac.uk
Cardiff Metropolitan University is a top modern university located in an exciting, vibrant European capital city.
Cardiff Met has approximately 13,000 students from over 130 different countries.
The university offers Foundation, Undergraduate and Postgraduate degree programmes across its five academic schools:
School of Art & Design;
School of Education;
School of Health Sciences;
School of Management;
School of Sport.
The university is focussed on employability and has a 95.6% graduate employment rate, the highest in Wales (DLHE 2015).
Every undergraduate programme includes a work placement opportunity and the university's Centre for Student Entrepreneurship helps students to meet with our network of over 5000 employers.
Cardiff Met is ranked as the top post-1992 university in the Research Excellence Framework 2014 and was awarded the Guardian University Award for Entrepreneurship in 2015.
The university was ranked in 2016 as the Top university for International Student Support for the 6th time (ISB Survey).
Cardiff Met is recognised internationally.
The university has over 6000 students studying Cardiff Met programmes overseas through our worldwide network of Transnational Education partners.
The university has a local office in Beijing, China and in Delhi, India, along with regional representatives in Nigeria and Vietnam.
myClass PLUS course enquiry
Get more information about how to register an English course and be among the first who gets updates and offers.
Complete this form and we will be in touch.
Alternatively, visit one of our centres in Thailand or call us on: 02 657 5678, 053 242 103
* Name
* Surname
* Telephone number
* Email
* Branch
- Select -
British Council collects your personal data to enable any requests arising from this submission to be processed, including contacting you to progress your request; we will not share it with anyone else.
By clicking submit you confirm that you agree to our terms and conditions (contract).
Data Protection
British Council complies with data protection law in the UK and laws in other countries that meet internationally accepted standards.
You have the right to ask for a copy of the information we hold on you, and the right to ask us to correct any inaccuracies in that information. If you have concerns about how we have used your personal information, you also have the right to complain to a privacy regulator.
For detailed information, please refer to the privacy section of our website, or contact your local British Council office.
We will keep your information for a period of 6 months from the time of collection.
Lancaster University
Find More Information about Lancaster University
Lancaster University
City/Town: Lancaster
Region: Northern England
www.lancaster.ac.uk
Lancaster University is a consistently ranked top 10 UK university in all major league tables and is also highly ranked in international league tables such as the QS World Rankings.
Lancaster was named “University of the Year 2018” by The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide.
It has also taken the top spot for Best Campus University, Best University in the North West UK and has been awarded TEF Gold – the highest possible score in the UK’s Teaching Excellence Framework ratings, which is testament to its exceptionally high quality teaching and excellent teaching facilities.
Students at Lancaster University are more satisfied with their course than the average UK student according to the latest National Student Survey, placing us firmly amongst the top 10 UK universities for student satisfaction.
These results reflect the dedication of staff who work hard to ensure that every student who comes here will receive the very best education.
Lancaster is also ranked 3rd in the UK for graduate-level employment in The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2019 with many students securing top graduate jobs throughout a variety of sectors following graduation.
Lancaster is a campus-based university located in a beautiful, historic city in the north of England, situated within an hour to Manchester and Manchester’s International Airport and the stunning scenery of the Lake District, and 2.5 hours away by train to London. With over 13,000 students from over 100 nationalities, over 20% of our students are from overseas giving Lancaster a diverse and international environment.
Lancaster is proud to be one of only a small handful of UK universities to have a collegiate system, each with its own distinctive character, support network and accommodation (a bit like Harry Potter!).
We have the best student accommodation in the UK, having won ‘Best University Halls’ in the National Student Housing Survey seven times since 2010.
Lancaster University is organised into four main faculties (Arts & Social Sciences, Science & Technology, Health & Medicine & our Management School), each of which comprises multiple departments, institutes and centres which offer a wide range of subjects at both undergraduate and postgraduate level for students to choose from.
UK transnational education
UK TRANSNATIONAL EDUCATION
Did you know you can gain a UK higher education qualification in your own country?
Have you thought about doing a UK degree in Thailand.
Many UK higher education institutions offer courses overseas, including in Thailand.
These courses are provided through local partners, branch campuses, and online platforms.
The provision of these UK university courses overseas is called transnational education, or TNE for short.
They are designed, delivered, and quality-assured to the UK’s own rigorous standards, and lead to UK qualifications that are fully recognised by employers and national education authorities in Thailand.
More than 700,000 students all over the world study towards a UK university qualification outside the UK.
Some do this in their home country, others travel to another country to study for a UK qualification.
Students who chose this option benefit from the UK’s world-class education resources, and enjoy similar academic support services as well as an international experience.
How will I benefit from a UK transnational education?
A UK qualification opens doors to many new and exciting opportunities.
Many students in Thailand have completed a UK TNE course and boosted their personal and career development as a result.
Gain a competitive edge: UK university qualifications are recognised for their career-enhancing quality.
Pursuing UK TNE will equip you with the analytical skills, critical thinking, teamwork ability, and international awareness employers are looking for, all while boosting your English language proficiency in the process.
Expand your international outlook: Studying on a UK TNE course will allow you to experience the UK’s approach to education and interact with students from different countries.
You may even have the opportunity to spend time in the UK as part of your course.
This is a great way to learn about the UK and it may well be the first step to studying in the UK in the future.
Should I consider a UK transnational education?
UK TNE offers a lot of flexibility and is a great alternative to gaining a qualification in the UK.
Choice of study modes and locations: You can study full-time with a local partner or at a branch campus, or, if you prefer, you can choose a part-time course and study anywhere through online distance learning.
Some courses can even be studied on a flexible basis, giving you complete control over your time.
Regardless of which study mode or location you choose, you will enjoy excellent support services and have access to outstanding academic resources.
Entry routes: Whether you’re looking to gain a first degree or expand your existing qualification through a postgraduate course, a range of TNE courses are available to suit different needs.
Some universities also offer pre-degree courses, enabling you to take the first step into UK higher education and progress onto higher level courses.
Costs and funding: UK TNE is a cost-effective way of gaining a fully recognised UK qualification.
Please check with specific local providers on payment terms and for information about scholarships and other funding sources available for your course.
How can I get Involved?
There are various TNE options for your consideration, including:
1)Online courses, through which you can study in your own time towards a range of UK qualifications, such as certificates and diplomas, or even a full undergraduate or postgraduate degree.
2)Articulation pathways, by which an institution will match its coursework requirements to those at another institution in the same or a different country, such as the UK, enabling you to transfer to another institution without repeating coursework.
3)Joint degrees (also called double degrees, dual degrees, combined degrees, conjoint degrees, simultaneous degrees, or double graduation programmes), by which you study at two partner universities in the same or different countries, such as the UK, and earn two degrees.
For more information about UK TNE programmes in Thailand, please contact Study UK (Thailand) studyukthailand@britishcouncil.org
Aptis contact form
If you would like to contact us about Aptis, please provide your personal details and details of your request.
*Name
*E-mail
*Phone
*Where did you hear about Aptis?
- Select -
If other, please specify
* Enquiry
British Council collects your personal data to enable any requests arising from this submission to be processed, including contacting you to progress your request; we will not share it with anyone else.
By clicking submit you confirm that you agree to our terms and conditions (contract).
Data Protection
British Council complies with data protection law in the UK and laws in other countries that meet internationally accepted standards.
You have the right to ask for a copy of the information we hold on you, and the right to ask us to correct any inaccuracies in that information.
If you have concerns about how we have used your personal information, you also have the right to complain to a privacy regulator.
For detailed information, please refer to the privacy section of our website, or contact your local British Council office.
We will keep your information for a period of 6 months from the time of collection.
Primary Plus English course (6-12 years)
Improve your child's English skills and life skills to tackle future challenges
Start in May or October	1 class a week for a 42 weeks
Bangkok, Nonthaburi and ChiangMai	6-12 years
Give your child a headstart – with inspiring English classes for kids
Primary Plus, our English course for kids, will encourage your child aged 6 to 12 years to express themselves in a safe, motivating environment.
We create a space where only English is spoken.
Children feel at the centre of their own learning.
They grow in confidence as they develop their fluency in English.
Inspiring.
Engaging.
Motivating.
Your child will:
build confidence by speaking in English about familiar topics such as their surroundings, from their bedroom to their neighbourhood
express themselves through exciting activities and group projects – exploring subjects like the natural world, from under the sea to outer space
develop important life skills, which prepare them for their future beyond the classroom.
Course information
COURSE LEVELS
Primary Plus Level 1
Primary Plus Level 2
Primary Plus Level 3
Primary Plus Level 4
Primary Plus Level 5
Primary Plus Level 6
COURSE DURATION
One 2 hour lesson per week
Once a week
Semesters start in May and October
FIND OUT MORE ABOUT THIS COURSE
Send a message to our English course consultants to find out more about this course.
WHY STUDY PRIMARY PLUS?
We aim to provide opportunities for our students to practise using English both in and outside of classroom which will help them to do better at school and perform their best in English exams.
LEARN ENGLISH AND SO MUCH MORE
Young students on our English courses learn by getting involved in activities that interest them.
Our expert teachers help them develop their English skills – and also creativity, critical thinking, problem solving and leadership skills.
Find out more about how we teach.
SET YOUR CHILD ON THE PATH TO SUCCESS
We see parents as partners.
You will receive regular feedback on your child’s progress.
At each age, we will assess their development in English language and core life skills.
Our aim is that by the end of the course your child will achieve a minimum of A2 on the CEFR (Common European Framework of Reference for Languages).
You will also get a log in to the Primary Plus online portal, so that your child can continue learning at home.
myClass
myClass
Experience top-notch teaching quality today
myClass is specifically designed to give you choice over what you study, when you study and with who in the belief that you’ll learn more this way.
You can choose the English lessons that best suit your interests and schedule while the teaching is still 100% face-to-face.
As well study in class, you also have access to online activities so you can practice anytime and anywhere.
On this course you will
practice your English-speaking skills through a range of activities that based on real-life situations
learn useful words and phrases that will enable you to better express yourself in English
Improve your pronunciation in class with our qualified teachers to help you speak naturally and understand others with greater ease
consolidate your English grammar, vocabulary, listening and reading by completing our fun interactive online language exercises related to your lessons and receive instant feedback
Course outcomes
Boost your confidence in all English skills
Improve your speaking and communication in English for work, social and daily use
Express yourself more effectively by expanding your English vocabulary
Sound more natural through better pronunciation
Course information
COURSE OBJECTIVES
myClass aims to help students improve their English communication skills, with a focus on English speaking and listening skills for work, academic preparation, culture, and general study, through using real-life topics and practical language tasks.
For Pre-intermediate and Intermediate students, there are also Writing lessons, with more to come for Elementary and Upper-Intermediate students in the future.
COURSE DURATION
Each lesson is 1.5 hours.
To complete one level you must attend 60 lessons
COURSE LEVELS
Elementary
Pre-intermediate
Intermediate
Upper-Intermediate
Find out more about this course
Send a message to our English course consultants to find out more about myClass
Special seminar 'Different Approaches, Same Results'
Date
Saturday 05 September 2015 -
13:00 to 15:00
Location
KBank Theatre Café, 7th Floor, Siam Square ONe
Free admission
Ready for take off?
Launch of UK Summer Schools Programme 2016.
Organised by the British Council, in co-operation with the Thai International Education Consultant Association (TIECA), UK English Summer Schools is a great opportunity for students at all level of studies to learn English with native speaking teachers in a British environment
'Different Approaches, Same Results'
Panel interview: ‘Different Approaches, Same Results.’
Get to hear and exchange ideas of learning English and different learning approaches of young learners and teenagers.
As a parent, how can you support you child in learning development and pave the way for his/her future?  Come and get answers to all questions you may have.
Programme
13.00 – 13.30  Registration
13.30 – 14.00  Afternoon tea
14.00 – 15.00  Panel interview: Different Approaches, Same Results
Special guest speakers
The panel interviewd will be host by the British Council with guest speakers from the Thai International Education Consultants Association (TIECA), Lecturer Chalalai Taesilapasathit, Thammasat University and parent representatives.
Your results – when and how to get your score
When will I get my IELTS results?
You won’t have to wait long for your IELTS test results.
You can log in to the Test Taker Portal 13 calendar days after your test and preview your results.
IELTS Results remain online for 28 days but should not be used as an official confirmation of your performance.
We will send out the Test Report Form (TRF), a paper copy of your IELTS test score, via mail delivery 13 days after the test date.
Please allow at least three days for the delivery.
IELTS results will not be disclosed over the phone or through email.
We’ll send your Test Report Form (TRF) directly to the institutions you’re applying to
Institutions need original copies of your Test Report Form.
Photocopies will not be accepted.
We can send up to five additional copies of your TRF directly to institutions you are applying to (for instance universities, immigration officers, etc.).
If you would like us to do this, please include the relevant addresses when you book your test.
Please do not forget to give the full postal address of the institution.
Without the complete address we are not able to check whether the institution has access to the IELTS Test Report Form Verification Service that allows it to view your results after we have submitted them electronically.
In case they do not access this service, we will send your TRF by post.
Can I get additional copies of my IELTS results?
If you want us to send another copy of your TRF to a recognising organisation in addition to the five copies we provide, you will need to pay an administration fee of THB 500 per copy plus an extra courier fee if you require.
If your test centre has been closed, you can order additional test report forms from ielts.org.
You will need to provide the institution’s address and fill in the “Additional TRF Form”.
and submit to British Council Siam Square or send an email to examinations@britishcouncil.or.th.
We will then send the TRF directly to the institution.
Please note that an additional Test Report Form takes around 10 days to be processed.
Request additional copies
What does my IELTS score mean?
You will be awarded an IELTS band score from 0-9 for each test section, which reflects your proficiency in English.
Your TRF shows a score for each of the four skills (Listening, Reading, Writing and Speaking), as well as an overall band score.
You can score whole band scores (for example 5.0, 6.0, 7.0) or half band scores (e.g. 5.5, 6.5, 7.5) in each section of the test.
Find out more about what your score means here.
How long are my IELTS results valid for?
Organisations will usually not accept your results if they are more than two years old, unless you provide evidence that you have actively maintained or tried to improve your English since taking the test.
The IELTS Partners cannot confirm the validity of test results that are more than two years old.
How can I get my IELTS test re-marked?
If you did not receive the score you expected, you can apply for your test to be re-marked.
This is called an Enquiry on Results (EOR).
You can choose which test sections you want to be re-marked and will need to request this at the test centre where you sat the test.
The fee for this service is THB 4,000, which will be refunded if your score is increased for any section of the test.
You need to apply for a re-marking no later than six weeks after the test date.
Download the Enquiry on Results Form from the download section below and submit it to the test centre where you sat the test.
-Make sure you attach your Test Report Form and proof of payment.
Enquiries on Results take two to four weeks to complete.
Can I re-take my IELTS test?
There are no restrictions on re-taking IELTS.
You can book a test as soon as you feel you are ready to do so.
Please note that your score is unlikely to increase unless you make a significant effort to improve your English before re-taking the test.
Visit the preparation section to take a practice test and assess your level.
English for young learners
Start a lifelong language learning adventure – with the world’s English experts.
Choose our spoken English classes for kids and teens.
Let your child explore our world of English, developing English communication and core life skills.
As a teenager, get ready for your future while learning English and the skills you need to succeed.
Our qualified teachers will inspire you every step of the way.
Our courses
Classroom
Primary Phonics Plus (5-6 yrs)
DescriptionLearn pronunciation and literacy using Jolly Phonics through games and various activities.
LocationPriceContact us
Primary Plus (6-12 yrs)
DescriptionDevelop English skills and life skills to tackle future challenges
LocationPriceContact us
Secondary Success (12-17 yrs)
DescriptionDevelop skills to become more confident in using English for study and everyday use.
LocationPriceContact us
Holiday Courses (6-17 yrs)
DescriptionImprove their level of English in a short period of time
LocationPriceContact us
Online
LearnEnglish websites
DescriptionGames, stories, videos, English exercises and more from LearnEnglish Kids, LearnEnglish Teens and Premier SkillsLocationPriceFREE
Find the course that suits your child's needs
Contact your local centre and arrange a meeting with one of our English language experts to find the right course at the right level for your child
The University of Hull
University of Hull
Find more information about the University of Hull
City/Town: Hull
Region: Northern England
Level of study:
Pathways to higher education
Undergraduate
Postgraduate taught course
Postgraduate research (e.g. MPhil, PhD)
English course
The University of Hull was formed in 1927, making us the 14th oldest university in England.
With a proud history of academic excellence and of creating and inspiring life-changing research, we offer the perfect combination of heritage and high technology, setting us apart from most other universities.
Hull was named the UK’s most affordable student city in the Natwest 2018 Student Living Index, and our single-site campus contains everything you need.
We’ve invested £200 million on new facilities including a world-class library, a superb health campus, a state-of-the-art concert hall, on-campus student accommodation and new sports facilities.
We also offer scholarship opportunities for all international students.
We earned a silver award in the Government’s Teaching Excellence Framework which recognises excellence in teaching and learning in UK universities and colleges, and we specialise in a wide range of high-quality undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
Our research tackles some of the biggest global challenges, from health to habitats, food to flooding and supply chains to slavery.
An impressive 97.9% of our international students go into work or further study within six months of graduating, according to the Higher Education Statistics Agency.
Our award-winning student union – with more than 150 societies and sports clubs – and our Student Support Team – which provides advice on issues including health and wellbeing, visas and immigration, and learning support – will ensure that you get the most out of everything the university has to offer.
We look forward to welcoming you to our internationally-minded, beautiful, green campus.
Scholarships for students applying at the Study UK Fair:
£2,500 guaranteed tuition fee discount for all Masters students.
£2,000 per year guaranteed tuition fee discount for all undergraduate students studying on an Arts programme.
£2,500 per year guaranteed tuition fee discount for all undergraduate students studying on a Science programme.
Our Teaching Approach
Kids and teens students
Check out how to book a level consultation and register for a course with us.
Our mission
At the British Council, we help our students reach their fullest potential by encouraging passion of learning English.
We are committed to providing students with a structured English language learning programme in a stimulating, rewarding and safe environment.
Our approach
All our classes are 100% face-to-face with UK-qualified teachers who have experience in teaching English for kids and teens using a variety of teaching materials  that fit each age group to help them actively learn and concentrate on the lessons in class.
We believe that genuine face to face interaction between students and with the teacher are the best ways to achieve this and help you learn English.
St John's College
Find more information about St John's College
St John's College
City/Town: Portsmouth
Region: Southern England
www.stjohnscollege.co.uk
Located in Southsea, Hampshire St John’s College is a Christian independent day and boarding school for girls and boys aged 2 – 18 years.
We are a wide-range ability school offering a rounded education and providing opportunities for pupils through an extensive range of activities to develop talents and create confident young people for the future.
Our quest for academic excellence is paramount, but our aim is that everyone should fulfil their potential, whatever that may be.
The College was founded in 1908 by a community established by John Baptist De La Salle, the patron saint of teachers.
In September 2015 we became independent from the De La Salle Trust but we remain a Lasallian school and continue to follow our Founder's vision in both our academic and pastoral care.
The main College campus is located in Southsea - a small seaside town in the historical city of Portsmouth, which is the UK’s only island city.
Our Nursery, Junior School, Senior School, Sixth Form College and Boarding School are all situated on the one 6-acre campus, and we own extensive Playing Fields on the outskirts of the city.
Scholarships
Scholarships and bursaries
Search for scholarships and bursaries for international students in the UK.
There are several sources of information on scholarships for those who would like to pursue application to study in the UK.
Scholarship search is available at Study UK,  which collates details on thousands of scholarships from various UK institutions.
In addition, there are several other scholarship programmes for students in the UK.
Among them are:
Chevening Scholarship
Erasmus Mandus Scholarship
For more information about scholarship sources, please visit Study UK.
In this section
Inspire! Scholarships 2018
Inspire! Scholarships 2018
GREAT Scholarships
GREAT Scholarships 2019 — Thailand
Win a £20,000 scholarship and study in one of the country’s five priority areas in Thailand 4.0
About Teeside University
Teesside University is a public university with its main campus in Middlesbrough, Teesside, North East England and offers an outstanding study experience for international students.
Teesside University has invested £270 million into their new campus in Middlesbrough, creating new, world-class teaching facilities, and a safe and friendly place for students to focus on their studies.
Teesside University is committed to creating and delivering a valuable and enjoyable learning experience for students — it is what they do best.
The International Student Barometer Survey 2017* showed a 94.4% overall satisfaction rate among international students (409 students participated).
Students from over 100 countries have graduated from the programmes listed in The Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2017-18**.
With its award-winning campus and 85 years of innovation in education, Teesside University focuses on helping students develop the knowledge and skills necessary for enhancing their career potential.
In the International Student Barometer Survey 2017*, Teesside University received a 100% satisfaction rate for its Careers Service (409 students participated), with alumni going on to work for organisations such as 22cans, ADP, Aston Martin, the BBC, British Aerospace, Delta Airlines, Disney, the Ford Motor Company, Framestore, Goldman Sachs, HSBC, Johnson Matthey, Microsoft, the NHS, Raleigh UK, Rolls-Royce, TEAGUE, Total, the United States Air Force Research Lab, and Vodafone.
Teesside offers low-cost living and the student budget will go further than in many other university towns and cities across the UK.
Teesside University offers some of the most affordable student accommodation in the UK.
The cost of university accommodation for 2018 starts from just £58 a week (£251 a month) — around half the cost of equivalent accommodation in London.
Travel costs are comparatively low too, and the compact campus is just a short walk from the university accommodation and Middlesbrough town centre.
Some of the most beautiful coast, countryside and historic cities in the UK can be reached within minutes — all by public transport.
According to the International Student Barometer Survey 2017*, students expressed 90% overall satisfaction with the living experience.
Extra-Curricular Services
การจัดการแข่งขันและกิจกรรมพิเศษ
Bring the world's English experts to your institution.
Extra-Curricular Services
The British Council's global network of offices in 110 countries and territories, as well as our integral role within the UK's education sector, makes us a gateway for partnering institutions and their students to ASEAN, the United Kingdom and the wider international community.
Throughout the year we support our partners by involving them in local and international competitions, festivals, programmes and events.
These include the UK's Reading Challenge, our global art competition, anti-bullying and child protection initiatives, and visits by leading international authors, artists and educational experts.
Our Connecting Classrooms scheme puts Thai students in contact with their peers in British schools, while our Inspire! Scholarships and School Lab competition offers the chance to study in the UK.
We seek to become trusted partners, performing an integral and valued role within each institution, offering additional services such as teacher training, workshops for parents, libraries, online and digital support, and after-school clubs.
Our English language schools
In this section
Siam Square
British Council Siam Square provides you with an easy access via BTS sky train (Siam Square Station.) We offer one-stop services through face-to-face contact.
Pinklao
British Council Pinklao, is located on the 10th floor of Central Pinklao’s prestigious office building (Tower A).
Here, we aim to provide a one-stop service for our customers.
Ladprao
British Council Ladprao is located on the 2nd floor of Rasa Tower.
The centre provides you with better access to all of our services as well as English courses by qualified teachers.
Chaengwattana
Located in Education Zone on the 7th floor of Central Plaza Chaengwattana, the centre provides you with better access to our English courses and registration for IELTS.
Srinakarin
The British Council Srinakarin is located in the Health and Beauty zone on the 3rd floor of Paradise Park Srinakarin offering a full range of English courses.
Chiang Mai
The British Council in Chiang Mai is conveniently located on Bumrungraj Road close to the heart of the city.
We offer a complete range of services including English courses and IELTS tests.
Birmingham City University
Birmingham City University
Find more information about Birmingham City University
City/Town: Birmingham
Region: Central England
Level of study:
Pathways to higher education
Undergraduate
Postgraduate taught course
Postgraduate research (e.g. MPhil, PhD)
English course
Situated in Birmingham, in the UK’s second-largest city, Birmingham City University welcomes over 24,000 students from some 80 countries to study with us.
We’re mid-way through a £260 million campus development offering world leading facilities for courses in Art, the Built Environment, Business, Computing, Design, Education, Engineering, Health, Law, Life Sciences, Media and Social Sciences.
In line with our transforming campus, we have also transformed our curriculum with almost 350 contemporary, flexible courses at undergraduate and postgraduate level, with practice-based learning and international opportunities built into every stage.
Our 1,700 teaching staff come from industry, ensuring you benefit directly from their knowledge.
We work with companies like Microsoft, Cisco and Jaguar Land Rover providing you with the chance to gain industry experience.
If you want to work while you study our student employment agency ‘OpportUNIty’ will support with that.
At the heart of it all is our student support system.
‘Ask’, brings together student support within a single enquiry service covering a wide range of topics.
In summary, Birmingham City University is a large, diverse and increasingly popular place to study. We put students at the heart of everything we do, giving them the best opportunities for future success.
Apinara Srikarnchana
Apinara Srikarnchana
London School of Economics and Political Science
Entrepreneurial Award Finalist
Apinara Srikarnchana is one of the co-founders of U Drink I Drive — Thailand’s first professional service to get people home safely, tackling the national problem of drink-driving accidents and high death rates.
Apinara’s reputable work has gained her trust in the startup community in Thailand and as a business champion of Bangkok’s No.1 professional driving service, conquering the night crowd and saving people’s lives by making sure they get a safe ride home.
Apinara observes that the London School of Economics provided her with the qualities and skills crucial for confronting the Thais’ irresponsible drink-driving behaviour together with the awareness and ambition to raise concerns in her own country and Thai society at large.
Astrum Education
Find more information about Astrum Education
Astrum Colleges, London
City/Town: London
Region: Greater London
www.astrumeducation.com
Private boarding schools in prestigious London locations since 1952 – Kensington, Notting Hill, Chelsea.
We teach GCSEs, A levels, and Foundation, and our students achieve outstanding results and progress to the UK’s top universities.
We offer more than 40 A Level subjects, and provide specialist preparation for students aiming for the most competitive degree subjects, at the highest ranking universities.
Small, focused classes (average class size of 8 students), weekly exam practice with comprehensive and constructive feedback, and a dedicated personal tutor for every student, to ensure our students achieve their personal academic goals.
There is a full programme of extra-curricular activities, including sports, cultural activities, societies, and subject-related excursions.
Whilst we have students of 39 different nationalities, it is important to us that over 75% of our students are British, so our international students benefit from studying alongside British students.
We provide full board accommodation, and have the highest standards of welfare to ensure our students feel safe, comfortable and happy.
Find more information about Astrum Education
Newcastle University
Find More Information about Newcastle University
Newcastle University
City/Town: Newcastle
Region: Northern England
www.ncl.ac.uk
The University is situated in the historic city of Newcastle upon Tyne.
Newcastle is one of the most exciting, friendly and cosmopolitan cities in the UK, and is fast becoming an internationally renowned centre of culture and science.
Newcastle has excellent transport links with major cities throughout the UK as well as overseas.
Newcastle’s international airport offers connections to a wide range of destinations including the major hubs of London, Paris, Amsterdam and a direct daily flight to Dubai. Good rail connections mean that London is less than three hours away.
Newcastle University has over 25,000 students.
We have a long tradition of welcoming students from all over the world and currently have over 5,000 international students from more than 120 countries.
Established in 1834, Newcastle is regarded as one of the UK’s top universities and belongs to the prestigious Russell Group of Universities.
The University’s reputation and popularity reflect our commitment to academic excellence, high quality teaching and world-class research.
As a Newcastle student, you will be welcomed into a supportive study environment, located in the heart of one of the UK’s friendliest and safest cities.
We offer a wide range of study options – from Foundation, English Language and preparatory courses at our on-campus INTO centre to Bachelors, Masters, PhD and professional short courses.
Newcastle University also has campuses in Singapore, Malaysia and London!
Seminar schedule
Seminar schedule
15.00 - 15.30 Register and snacks
15.30 - 16.00 Information for studying in England and the IELTS test by the British Council team
16.00 - 16.45 How does CATS College help students succeed? Lecture by Jonathan Hawkins, Director of CATS University Foundation Program
16.45 - 17.00 Scholarship and application process by Kledpetch Sumonphan, Regional Sales Manager
17.00 - 18.00 Q&A and interview with Jonathan and the CATS College team
Events
Throughout the year, we organise and run a dynamic calendar of public events, including workshops, seminars, exhibitions, competitions and information briefings.
We are working with a variety of trusted partners to bring the best of the UK.
You can find details of our upcoming events here.
Upcoming events
Alumni Awards 2020
The Alumni Awards celebrate the outstanding achievements of alumni and showcase the impact and value of a UK higher education.
Date
Wednesday 03 July 2019 - 01:00 to Monday 28 October 2019 - 01:00
NEWTON A LEVEL PROGRAMME - UNIVERSITY OF EAST ANGLIA
NEWTON A LEVEL PROGRAMME - UNIVERSITY OF EAST ANGLIA
Special! Join the first taster lesson “Chemistry — Newton A Level” and receive advice and tips on A level scores.
Date
Saturday 20 July 2019 -
15:00 to 17:00
Location
British Council Siam Square (BTS Siam)
Weerapong Prasongchean
Dr Weerapong Prasongchean
Lecturer at the Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Chulalongkorn University
Dr Weerapong Prasongchean is a lecturer at the Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Chulalongkorn University.
His work was instrumental in developing cross-curricular learning experiences for diverse groups of educators and learners from various backgrounds, encouraging them to engage with local wisdom and global health in areas such as ageing, brain science, as well as stem cell and regenerative pharmacy.
Dr Prasongchean holds a Doctoral Degree in Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology from University College London and won the Social Impact Award in 2016/17.
University of Dundee
University of Dundee
Find more information about the University of Dundee
City/Town: Dundee
Region: Scotland
Level of study:
Undergraduate
Postgraduate taught course
Postgraduate research (e.g. MPhil, PhD)
English course
The University of Dundee is one of Scotland’s premier educational institutions offering world-class undergraduate, postgraduate and research degrees in a wide variety of subjects. We offer courses in a range of subjects including law, engineering, business, medicine and life sciences.
Sixteen percent of the University’s students are international, coming from over 80 countries worldwide.
We've been named Scottish University of the Year in The Times & Sunday Times Good University Guide 2016 and 2017, and are in the top 20 universities worldwide under 50 years old (Times Higher Education 100 Under 50 2016/17).
Our students also rate us very highly on student satisfaction - we have been ranked No. 1 in Scotland for six years running by the Times Higher Education (THE) Student Experience Survey (2010 - 2015).
Compared to other Scottish cities, Dundee boasts more sunshine, lower rainfall and a warmer climate due to its sheltered location.
The University also is easily accessible - Edinburgh International airport is only an hour away.
Visit our website today and find out more about studying at one of the world's top 200 universities (Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2018).
Cambridge Tutors College
Find more information about Cambridge Tutors College
Cambridge Tutors College
City/Town: Croydon
Region: Greater London
www.ctc.ac.uk
Set in an easily accessible location in the lovely Park Hill area of Croydon, South London, CTC offers an attractive and safe environment in which each student can flourish.
CTC was founded in 1958 by Roger Osborne, a graduate of Cambridge University.
Since then we have grown into one of the UK’s leading international Colleges as our reputation for academic excellence has spread globally.
Careful monitoring of academic progress and weekly subject testing lie at the heart of CTC’s commitment to high academic standards and our secret has been to keep class sizes small at no more than 9 and base our teachings on the tutorial style started by Roger Osborne all those years ago.
It is an approach that works and our exam results are consistently very high.
In 2015, 56% of A-levels taken were awarded an A or A* grade with a third of all students gaining 3 or 4 A/A* grades.
It is our expert guidance and support during the university application process that also helps to explain why so many CTC students succeed in securing places at leading universities.
In 2014, a large majority of our students chose to go on to a Russell Group University with many opting for Medicine, Bio sciences, Mathematics, Economics, Finance, Architecture, Law, and Engineering.
Cambridge Tutors College has always provided excellent home stay facilities, and from September 2016 it introduced boarding with 40 en suite rooms for students.
D'OVERBROECK'S
The Sixth Form at d'Overbroeck's: Our Sixth Form students are a mix of our own Year 11 students and over 130 new students each year from other schools.
Most students are from the UK but we have a significant proportion from abroad with over 30 nationalities.
There is a wide range of 35 A level subject choices in any combination, plus enrichment for Oxbridge/Medicine/ Law, etc.
Teaching is interactive and motivating in small classes where students gain confidence in expressing themselves more effectively, questioning and debating.
The Sixth Form offers a superb transition from school to university.
Our pastoral care is regularly praised by students and parents.
Strong in supporting and encouraging students, d'Overbroeck's is very much a 'people place' where each individual thrives.
First name terms highlight our collaborative approach, which is underpinned by a high level of mutual respect.
Each student has a Director of Studies who meets with them individually to discuss progress.
A busy sports and activities programme runs across the school with very strong arts, drama and music departments, with brand new facilities for performing arts in a brand new Sixth Form building.
Academic information: Excellent record of entrance to top UK (and US) universities plus drama, music and art schools. 54% A*/A at A-level.
• More than 1 in 5 examination entries gained A*
• More than half of examination entries gained A*/A
• More than one third of students gained 3 or more grade A's in their subjects
University destinations: University College London, Kings College London, Imperial College London, University of Oxford.
The International School at d'Overbroeck's: Courses available are: One year IGCSE, Two year IGCSE, and Study Abroad all taught in small classes.
Our students are all international students from over 30 different countries.
Students get to experience not only a home away from home, but also a British school, where they join school houses and experience various responsibility roles within the school, aimed at developing their team spirit and enhancing their confidence.
Teachers and students are on first name terms which leads to a high level of mutual respect.
Each student has a Pastoral guide who meets with them individually to discuss progress.
A busy sports and activities programme run across the school with very strong arts, drama and music departments.
All students take part in a wide range of activities aimed at confidence building, self-expression and team-working through evening, weekend activities.
University of Southampton
Find More Information about University of Southampton
University of Southampton
City/Town: Southampton
Region: Southern England
www.southampton.ac.uk
The University of Southampton is a founder member of the Russell Group of 24 research intensive UK universities.
It is regularly ranked among the top 20 institutions  in the UK and in the top 1% of universities worldwide.
Our academic strengths include the sciences, engineering, computer science, medicine, law, business, education, art, humanities and social sciences.
Our focus on  interdisciplinary research enables staff and students to collaborate on topics of global interest such as food security, bio-fuel technology, carbon emissions and web science.
The University provides a cosmopolitan and culturally diverse environment in which to study.
It has about 25,000 students, of which 30% are from outside the  UK representing more than 135 countries.
Southampton is a campus university based across five sites in Southampton and Winchester, and a campus in Malaysia.
In addition to our academic facilities and support  services, there is a wide range of student-led social activities, sports and leisure facilities.
We guarantee accommodation to international students depending on the duration of their course.
For 2019 entry, this is full duration of studies for undergraduate and first year of postgraduate study.
Our masters programmes are one year in duration.
Our careers service offers advice and opportunities for career planning and enhancing employability skills.
Situated on the south coast, just over an hour from London, Southampton is a thriving modern city, steeped in history and culture with excellent links to the rest of the UK and Europe.
There are many reasons to choose Southampton.
Here are just a selection:
Top Global 100 University (QS 2019), UK Top 20 (Complete University Guide 2019)
Founding member of the prestigious Russel Group of 24 research intensive UK universities
3rd best place to live and work in the UK (Good Growth for Cities Index, 2017, DEMOS-PwC)
Our Meet & Greet airport pick up free of charge on select arrival dates
Guaranteed accommodation for international students
UniLink bus pass included in university accommodation, linking you to all Southampton campuses, university accommodation, city centre, airport, train stations and key shopping areas throughout the city
13th most affordable city in the UK (Natwest Student Living Indez 2018)
Award winning Careers Destinations team, offering employability skills workshops, paid internship opportunities flexible around studies, placements, mentoring, entrepreneurship support, FutureWorlds start up incubator.
Over 300 clubs and societies, including Thai society.
Extensive sports facilities ranging from £8.5 million sports centre including a 25 metre swimming pool (also used for sports such as kayak polo).
Gym on highfield campus and at a number of university accommodation, including Mayflower and Glen Eyre.
Vibrant region with many events in the city throughout the year and well connected to see the rest of the UK and Europe.
Southampton is located 1 hour and 20 minutes on the train to London.
Aston University
Aston University
Find more information about Aston University
City/Town: Birmingham
Region: Central England
Level of study:
Pathways to higher education
Undergraduate
Postgraduate taught course
Postgraduate research (e.g. MPhil, PhD)
English course
Founded in 1895 and a University since 1966, Aston is a long established research-led University known for its world-class teaching quality and strong links to industry, government and commerce.
As of June 2019, Guardian League Tables has ranked Aston University 34th for 2020.
Aston has been awarded GOLD in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) 2017 – the highest possible award! We obtained 84% student satisfaction in the government’s latest National Student Survey (2018)  and Global Higher Education consultants QS Intelligence Unit have awarded Aston a five star rating for excellence in teaching, employability, innovation, facilities, inclusiveness, and internationalisation.
In the 2014 Research Excellence Framework (REF), 78% of research submitted was evaluated as 'world leading' or 'internationally recognised'.
It is currently ranked 23rd in the UK and in the top 200 in the world in the QS Graduate Employability Rankings 2018.
Aston University, including all accommodation on campus, library, and sports and teaching facilities, is situated in the centre of the City of Birmingham - the UK’s second largest city.
Studying and living in one of Europe’s liveliest cities, you’ll have access to excellent nightlife, travel, culture, sport, shopping and work, and it’s all just minutes’ walk from campus.
Scholarships:
Scholarships of up to £7,000 available for students.
Llandrillo Menai International
Find more information about Llandrillo Menai International
Llandrillo Menai International
City/Town: Colwyn Bay
Region: Wales
www.gllm.ac.uk
Llandrillo Menai International is part of one of the leading Government-funded colleges of Further Education in the UK, located in North Wales.
We are consistently graded as one of the highest achieving colleges by Government Inspectors.
Our students acheive great results and rated us as the best college in Wales in the 2014 Government Student Satisfaction Survey.
We are one of the largest colleges in Wales and the UK with 14 campuses and over 27,000 students studying a wide range of Pre-Degree (A Levels, IB and Vocational Diplomas), Foundation and Honours degree courses.
as well as a wide range of English Language Training, Short courses, Summer Schools and Vocational College development and consultancy.
Llandrillo Menai International holds a UK Visas and Immigration Sponsor licence to recruit both adult and child students from overseas.
Our courses are amongst the best in the country.
Our International students achieve great results, helping them to achieve their dreams and ambitions.
Many international students have enjoyed their study at Llandrillo Menai International over the years and are happy to recommend the college to their family and friends.
North Wales is a very friendly place to study and learn, and a number of students choose to stay in the area and continue their study at our partner University in Bangor.
We look forward to welcoming you to our College.
Ways to partner with us
There are many different ways to partner with the British Council Thailand to enhance the profile and marketing goals for your company.
Support educational projects and programmes
Every year, we deliver numerous projects with kind support from the Ministry of Education.
We also offer dynamic partnership opportunities to those who share mutual goals with us.
© British Council
Support cultural and sustainable society projects
The British Council implements a diverse range of projects to support local society.
We welcome opportunities to discuss with you potential support that will help us achieve shared success.
Share knowledge with UK academic institutions
We provide links between institutions in the UK and Thailand, aiming to trigger discussion on a topic of mutual interest to share knowledge, ideas and insights.
Implement our training and curriculum
With more than 70 years of English language teaching experience around the world, we know how to teach English efficiently and how to enhance our students to make progress more effectively.
Become an educational agent
We value agents as our marketing partners and have therefore developed various products and services to increase the quality of agent's work.
Northumbria University
Northumbria University
City/Town: Newcastle
Region: Northern England
www.northumbria.ac.uk
Northumbria University is a research-rich, business-focused, professional university with a global reputation for academic excellence.
It is based in the heart of Newcastle upon Tyne, which is regularly voted the best place in the UK for students.
The University has its origins in Rutherford College, founded in 1871.
Today, by putting students at the heart of an outstanding experience, and Top 50 in the UK for research power and award-winning partnerships, Northumbria is a new kind of excellent university.
Northumbria is top seven in the UK for the number of graduates entering professional employment and nine out of ten of our graduates are working or studying six months after graduation.
The university works with major employers and more than 560 employers sponsor our students and almost 50 professional bodies accredit our programmes.
Innovative and entrepreneurial, we are the number 1 university in the UK for graduate business start-ups.
We have a campus in London as well as Newcastle, and work in partnership with other higher education institutions across the world attracting students from over 136 countries, expanding on our truly global presence.
Special offers
Northumbria Global Scholarship Awarding International Students up to £6,000
20% Discount for Northumbria Alumni
University of Huddersfield
Find More Information about University of Huddersfield
University of Huddersfield
City/Town: Huddersfield
Region: Northern England
www.hud.ac.uk
The University of Huddersfield is an exciting, stimulating place to learn.
As a growing centre of research and academic excellence, which can trace its roots back over 190 years to 1825, the University is always pushing the boundaries of knowledge.
Choosing Huddersfield makes sense for international students as every year we welcome students from over 130 countries worldwide.
They come because of our academic reputation, the range of courses on offer, and the track records of our successful students, with a graduate employment rate of around 94%.
We are a friendly and student-centred university.
Most of our courses offer the opportunity to get involved with industry, from sponsored projects and guest lectures, to internships and work placements.
Many of our full-time degree courses include the option of an internship where you will spend a year on a paid work placement gaining the skills employers are looking for as well as gaining (on average) a better degree classification.
That is why we are in the top ten (England) for paid placements (internships).
The University has placed students with many international companies around the world, including Microsoft, Panasonic, Ferrari, BMW, Bosch, Intel, Motorola and many more.
A continuing programme of campus development (we’ll have spent nearly £160 million over the last ten years) ensures that you have access to some of the best facilities and equipment in the country.
In addition to developing your academic abilities, Huddersfield has a dynamic, creative and cultural mix with a strong reputation for student safety and is a great place for study and play.
Our international student societies allow you to meet other students from your country and to celebrate your culture on campus.
A year-round campus events programme enhances your UK student experience with food festivals, sports competitions and cultural visits.
A dedicated international student experience manager is on campus with his team to look after you.
Our award-winning Careers Department helps you to find part-time employment while you are studying, as well as preparing you for your first graduate job.
Over the years the University has won a number of awards:
• 1st in the world for the international student experience (ISB 2011)
• Entrepreneurial University of the Year (THE 2012)
• Top 10 in England for Teaching Quality (Sunday Times 2013)
• University of the Year (THE 2013)
• 2nd in the UK and 4th in the world for the international student experience (ISB 2015)
• Voted the best place for international students to live in the UK (ISB 2015)
Measured on the international stage, we are a QS 4 stars University, with 5 stars (the maximum) for Employability, Teaching Excellence, Facilities, Internationalization and Access to the University.
Huddersfield is a successful, innovative and modern international University with excellent facilities and many outstanding research teams.
Choose to study at the University of Huddersfield and, not only will we look after you, you’ll also benefit from our commitment to develop you as an outstanding professional of the future, achieving your employment goals.
English for specific purpose - Medicine
Would like to receive more information
English for Medicine
Enhance your English communication skills for medical, nursing and pharmaceutical work, and gain the necessary confidence you need, the British Council, together with TIECA, invites you to join the UK English Summer Schools programme.
Study English in a native English speaking country and improve your career opportunities for the future, the British Council, together with TIECA, invites you to join UK English Summer Schools programme.
Study English language in a native-speaking country.
Who is this course for?
English for Medicine is a specialized English language program specially designed for medical students.
Students preparing for medical school Dentistry, Pharmacists and Medical Professionals interested in developing specialized English.
You can gain inspiration from activities inside and outside the classroom.
the courses are taught by British Council accredited institutions in various cities throughout the United Kingdom.
What is English for Medicine?
And different from general English courses?
Generally the curriculum can be adapted to the needs and basis of each student.
Including the following content:
Extensive English foundation.
Ready to learn the terminology in the medical field.
Learn to use sentences and grammar required for the doctors-to-be.
Such as patient history.
Symptom analysis Patient consultation Communication in situations such as emergency cases.
Experience the life of a medical student in the UK.
Through visiting leading universities.
Study tours to observe and learn work in leading hospitals in the UK.
Test your PLAB exams to obtain a medical certificate in the UK with a certified Examiner.
How long does English for Medicine take?
Most courses take 4 weeks, but could be more - depending on the needs of the learner.
And can choose to be a group or single.
Partner Schools and Universities
British Council
British Council Partner Schools and Universities
The British Council has a wealth of experience of working closely with academic institutions in Thailand.
Operating within the Thai education system, we deliver English tuition to over 4,000 students at partner institutions across the country.
Our English teaching seeks to nurture in students the confidence to use English in real-life situations.
This means not just in the classroom but in social and professional contexts.
We promote creativity and learner autonomy through enjoyable yet challenging activities.
We assess learners on their progress in class against a range of criteria and provide feedback reports on a range of language competencies.
At the British Council, we employ the best English language teachers because we believe they are the key to successful learning.
Our teachers are highly qualified with many years of experience and understand the needs and interests of young learners.
They encourage students to be actively involved in the learning process and help them to develop their full potential.
Read more about why your institution should partner with us.
Level
Classroom
Kindergarten
DescriptionWe provide all-round holistic development of communication, language and literacy skills in English.
LocationPriceContact Us
Lower Primary (Prathom 1-2)
DescriptionWe establish a solid foundation in English language and build confidence in using authentic English in a safe, relaxed and positive environment.
LocationPriceContact Us
Primary (Prathom 3-6)
DescriptionWe help learners to begin developing independent study skills that will facilitate their success in secondary school and beyond.
-LocationPriceContact Us
Lower Secondary (Mathayom 1-3)
DescriptionWe develop reading, writing, listening and speaking skills while increasing accuracy in grammar and buillding vocabulary in contexts that are relevant to young teenagers.
LocationPriceContact Us
Upper Secondary (Mathayom 4-6)
DescriptionWe enhance students’ capabilities in listening, reading, writing and speaking tasks, helping them prepare for examinations (such as IELTS) and university studies.
LocationPriceContact Us
Bring the world's English experts to your institution.
BELLERBYS COLLEGE
Open yourself up to a whole world of opportunity and experiences by choosing to study at Bellerbys College.
Bellerbys provides a high-quality British education that is tailor made for you and trusted by universities.
Our specialist colleges give you a safe, secure and supportive place to achieve your full potential.
We can give you the best possible guidance to help you choose the right university for you.
Many Bellerbys students go on to study at Oxford, Cambridge and other Russell Group universities.
We offer a range of courses suitable for students aged 14 and upwards.
Our courses provide you with the academic skills, English language preparation and confidence you need to succeed in further study.
Our specialist staff have years of experience teaching international students, and have strong relationships with top universities across the UK.
This means we offer the best university preparation for you, to ensure you can progress to study at your preferred university.
As a Bellerbys student you will receive a globally recognised education, support with your university application, and the very best care from expert staff.
Our students achieve consistently high exam results and study in welcoming, multicultural environments.
Secondary Songkran Courses
Improve your English skills for your school studies and your English exams
This summer the British Council is offering new Songkran courses for secondary students aged 12-17 who would like to develop their speaking, reading, writing and listening skills in English.
Course information
Course Structure
There are two levels you can study this summer:
Secondary Lower for Mathayom 1 - 3
Secondary Upper for Mathayom 4 - 6
All new students are required to do a placement test so they can be placed in the right class for their level.
The Aims of The Course
Let’s face it! Movies are cool! They illustrate & define culture, they open our eyes to the world and they are good fun to watch.
There are so many films from all over the world, but sometimes the speaking can be fast & the grammar and vocabulary difficult.
-Would you like to be better able to understand & talk about films in English?
-Would you like to be better able to debate & give your opinions on a range of topics in conversation & through presentations?
-How about taking part in interactive simulations of real life situations ?
-Yes?
-Then our Songkran courses are for you.
Our film-based courses focus have been specially prepared by teachers at the British Council to fit the particular needs of Thai learners & focus on developing all four language skills: reading, listening, writing and speaking.
The fun and varied activities will allow you to develop your confidence and independence in using English.
Duration:
The course duration is 30 hours.
Time
Tuesday – Saturday 09.00 – 12.00 a.m. or 1.00 p.m. - 4.00 p.m.
Tettenhall College
Our mission at Tettenhall College is to ensure that every pupil achieves their personal best by providing an education that develops the whole person both in and beyond the classroom.
We are proud to be able to offer a truly global perspective with exceptional extra-curricular opportunities that complement rigorous academic standards.
Tettenhall College offers a unique opportunity for your child's education in the UK; set in a picturesque small village setting yet with excellent transport links to nearby cosmopolitan cities and international airports including London which is under 2 hours away.
Our boarders thrive in a safe, secure and happy family environment, where lifelong friendships are made in the pursuit of academic excellence.
We place emphasis on developing individual strengths of all abilities within a nurturing environment of small class sizes and excellent pastoral care.
A Foundation Year is available for international pupils wanting to study A levels in 3 years with additional English Language to support and enhance their English language skills.
Outside of the classroom, there are extensive opportunities for extra-curricular activities in the arts, music, drama, sport and charity work.
There are excellent on-site facilities including a swimming pool, a theatre, music practice rooms and over 30 acres of grounds to explore, whilst the village and local shops are just on the doorstep.
Boarders enjoy a wide range of enriching weekend activities and cultural visits and staff are always there to share our pupils' successes and help them with any problems.
Our boarders are extremely happy here and are a valued part of our school community as recognised by recent inspection reports.
Our pupils consistently achieve beyond expectations, leaving as well-rounded, confident young adults ready to face the challenges ahead.
Box Hill School
Find more information about Box Hill School
Box Hill School
City/Town: Dorking
Region: Southern England
www.boxhillschool.com
Box Hill School is a friendly co-educational school for boarding and day students aged 11-18 set in beautiful grounds in leafy Surrey and only forty minutes from central London.
As a Round Square school, we believe in developing the whole student, enabling them to achieve both inside and outside of the classroom.
By surrounding the core of academic study with a range of activities, sports and expeditions, we draw out talents and abilities and unlock potential.
We pride ourselves in being a smaller school with a nurturing environment, as it allows us to give each student high levels of attention in class and exceptional pastoral care for which we are rightly renowned.
The international aspect of the school is important to our Round Square approach and sets us apart from other schools.
Our parents recognise the benefits to their children of mixing with other cultures; opening their eyes to a wider world.
Box Hill students emerge as well educated, well rounded and tolerant students excited and ready for the challenges of university and the world beyond.
Through our differentiated teaching and exceptional pastoral guidance comes academic success for our students.
The difference in our approach however, comes from our determination and passion to develop the whole person and unearth qualities in our students that they did not know they possessed.
Students amaze themselves when they see what they are capable of achieving and we watch them grow in confidence.
Our Round Square ideals of Internationalism, Democracy, Environmental Concern, Adventure, Leadership and Service set us apart and we apply them every day in the class room and through our vast range of activities and expeditions.
It is important to us that we help produce well–adjusted, tolerant and confident young people with a sense of pride in themselves who are ready to greet the world with energy and enthusiasm.
Allergic diseases are one of the most common conditions in children.
They can be caused by exposure to anything from food to the environment.
Some of the most common food allergens are cow’s milk, eggs, peanuts and seafood while common environmental allergens in Thailand are dust mites, cockroaches and pets.
These allergic conditions can affect skin, respiratory and digestive systems.
Signs and Symptoms of Childhood Allergies
Diagnosis and Treatment of Childhood Allergies
Allergy Testing
Signs and Symptoms of Childhood Allergies
Skin
Itchy skin rashes, or dry skin, neck and flexor areas of the extremities
Skin rashes can be persistent or intermittent
Respiratory Tract
Running nose, sneezing, congestion or itchy nose
Can occur all day or at certain times of the day
Sometimes can present as chronic respiratory disease or sinusitis
Cough or shortness of breath can occur with exposure to certain allergens or in specific circumstances such as exercise or weather change
Digestive Tract
Swelling of the lips, red rash around the mouth
Nausea, spitting up and vomiting
Stomach bloating, watery stool, mucousy bloody stool
Diagnosis and Treatment of Childhood Allergies
At Bumrungrad Hospital, our team of specialists provides comprehensive diagnostic panels, tests and treatment of all childhood allergic diseases such as:
Allergic rhinoconjunctivitis,
Asthma,
Allergy Testing
Bumrungrad Hospital provides a range of allergy testing, including:
Skin Test: Skin tests are the one of the most common techniques used in testing for allergies.
We can identify which allergens are responsible for the symptoms and the results are usually available within 20 minutes.
Blood Test: Blood tests can be used as an alternative test for allergies in particular patients.
Food challenge test/ Patch test: these tests are also available in selective patients.
Lung Function Test: Lung function tests can be performed in children when asthma or other respiratory diseases are suspected.
Milk ducts, through which breast milk flows, can sometimes become blocked and hinder milk flow.
Milk is then retained in the breast, causing some parts of the breasts to become hard and thick or lumps can be felt in the breasts.
This only occurs in parts of the breast and not the entire breast.
The area above the lump may be painful or red, but there is usually no fever.
The nipple and areola may become misshapen, and sometimes the blood vessels on the surface of the skin of the breast may become raised.
White dots may also appear on the nipples.
Causes of Plugged Milk Ducts
Your baby is not completely draining your breast milk, whether from infrequent feeding or limiting their time on the breast.
You have allowed milk to be retained in your breasts for too long.
You have an oversupply and the milk is not removed, or the supply exceeds the demand of your baby.
You are wearing a bra that is too tight, restricting the circulation of breast milk.
You are wearing a bra that is too loose, causing your breasts to sag and press on milk ducts.
You are consuming excessive foods high in fat or oily foods, such as butter and cheese.
You are stressed, causing hormones of lactation to decrease.
Treatment
Use warm compresses on your breast for approximately 5 to 10 minutes before breastfeeding.
Breastfeed on the side with the plugged duct first as your baby’s hunger which cause the baby to suck harder and remove more milk.
After nursing, express the remaining milk manually or with a pump to speed up recovery.
Breastfeed at least 8 to 12 times in a 24-hour-period and for at least 15 to 20 minutes on each side.
Ensure that your baby is latched on correctly and position your baby’s chin towards the lump(s) in your breast so the baby can use their tongue more efficiently to drain that area.
Change your baby’s position with each feed so milk is removed from all parts of the breast.
Gently massage your breast while your baby is nursing by massaging the area above the plugged duct and down towards the nipple, to release the plug.
After breastfeeding use cold compresses to reduce pain and swelling.
If needed, take painkiller, such as paracetamol.
Wear a supportive bra that is not too loose or too tight.
If your condition doesn’t improve within 24 hours, see your doctor or visit the Breastfeeding Clinic.
Ovarian Cancer
Ovarian cancer is the second most common type of female reproductive cancer.
It can be found among young girls and women in their fertile or reproductive years, but is most commonly found among women between the ages of 40-60 years.
It develops due to the formation of cancer cells within the ovaries.
Causes and Risk Factors of Ovarian Cancer
Symptoms of Ovarian Cancer
Treating Ovarian Cancer
Preventing Ovarian Cancer
Causes and Risk Factors of Ovarian Cancer
The exact causes of ovarian cancer is still unknown, but existing research has identified a number of risk factors:
A family history of ovarian cancer, especially among a mother, siblings, or daughters
Being 50 years or older
Early menstruation; if the patient had her first period before the age of 12
If the patient has never been pregnant or has never given birth
If the patient had given birth to her first child after age 30
If the patient reached menopause age 55
If the patient has a history of breast cancer or bowel cancer
Symptoms of Ovarian Cancer
In its early stages, ovarian cancer may not produce any symptoms.
However, consult a doctor immediately if you experience any of the following symptoms:
Abdominal or pelvic pain
Difficulty eating, indigestion, or stomach pain
Feeling full quickly, even after only eating a small amount
Nausea
Diarrhea or constipation
Frequent urination
Loss of appetite
Unexplained weight gain or weight loss
Abnormal vaginal bleedingTreating Ovarian Cancer
Treating Ovarian Cancer
Choosing a type of treatment for ovarian cancer depends on many factors, such as the stage of the tumor.
A specialist doctor will determine which type of treatment is most appropriate for each patient.
Treatment for ovarian cancer may include:
Surgery: If the patient's tumor is small and has not yet spread to other areas, the doctor will consider surgical treatment in order to remove the tumor and the surrounding tissue.
The doctor may also remove the lymph glands from near the site of the tumor.
Chemotherapy: This involves using medication to destroy cancer cells.
Chemotherapy medicines can be administered in several different ways, including oral medication, subcutaneous injection, or IV (intravenous chemotherapy).
However, one side effect of chemotherapy is that it may destroy healthy cells as well.
Radiation Therapy: This involves using radiation to destroy cancer cells and reduce the size of the patient's tumor.
Radiation therapy may be given as either external radiation or internal radiation.
Preventing Ovarian Cancer
There are no specific ways to prevent ovarian cancer, as the exact cause of the condition is still unknown.
Moreover, early stage ovarian cancer usually has no symptoms, so the best way to prevent it from developing is to simply watch for any physical abnormalities.
It’s important to go in for check-ups, internal screenings, and a pelvic ultrasound scan at least once per year to check for lumps in the pelvic cavity.
Ultrasound therapy is the use of sound waves with frequency in the range of 0.7 to 3.3 MHz that can penetrate 2 to 5 centimeters under the skin to stimulate blood circulation, reduce pain, and increase the elasticity of tissue.
Therapeutic ultrasound can treat blocked milk ducts by expanding them, allowing the milk to then flow through the ducts more easily.
Breastfeeding the baby, manually expressing breast milk, or using a breast pump can then help milk to flow more effectively.
Ultrasound may be a treatment option for women with engorgement or blocked milk ducts and its suitability will be decided by the doctor.
A physical therapist will carry out the treatment.
It may be done just once to resolve the issue or may need to be repeated a few times to be most effective.
The difference between therapeutic ultrasound and warm compresses is that the compresses may not penetrate deep enough under the skin to truly affect the milk ducts.
Ultrasound can reach 2 to 5 centimeters under the skin where warm compresses may only reach about 1 centimeter.
Post-Procedure Instructions
Breastfeed the baby to drain the milk ducts or use a breast pump for at least 30 to 45 minutes.
A double pump may be more effective as it can drain both breasts at the same time after an ultrasound treatment.
It is recommended that warm compresses be used for 5 to 10 minutes before expressing breast milk the next time.
Breast massage can also help.
Breastfeed the baby often, every 2 to 3 hours, and if the breast is not completely empty, use a pump.
If the baby is not drinking directly from the breast, pump every 2 to 3 hours during the day and every 3 hours at night.
After breastfeeding and/or pumping, if the breast is still painful, use cold compresses and take pain medication, like paracetamol, as needed.
Avoid food and drinks that are too sweet or high in fat, and avoid food and medication that can increase supply while dealing with engorgement and/or blocked milk ducts.
Keep all doctors’ appointments to monitor the situation as untreated engorgement and/or blocked milk ducts can lead to mastitis or breast abscess.
For advice and additional information, please contact hospital staff:
Colon cancer is caused by the uncontrolled growth of cells in the colon.
It may take years to develop, and at the early stage, there may only be an abnormal growth of tissues known as polyps.
However, these polyps can then develop into cancer if left untreated or not removed.
Risk Factors for Colon Cancer
Symptoms of Colon Cancer
Colon Cancer Screening
Diagnosis of Colon Cancer
Treatment of Colon Cancer
Risk Factors for Colon Cancer
Although the exact cause of colon cancer is unknown, there are some risk factors that may increase the chance of developing the disease.
Personal history of polyps: These are usually found on the wall of the large intestine and are not malignant.
However, over time some of these polyps can develop into colon cancer.
Age: While colon cancer can be found in younger people and teens, it is much more common in older people.
90% of cases involve people over the age of 50.
Personal history of IBD (inflammatory bowel disease): Ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease are more commonly known as IBD (inflammatory bowel disease) and increase the risk for developing colon cancer.
Family history of colon cancer: Having a family member under the age of 60 years with colon cancer increases the risk of colon cancer.
Obesity and lack of exercise: There is evidence to suggest that the risk of developing colon cancer may higher in people who are overweight and do not exercise regularly.
Smoking: Studies have reported that the risk of colon cancer is higher among smokers than non-smokers.
Symptoms of Colon Cancer
In some cases, people with colon cancer have no abnormal symptoms, so they do not know that they have cancer.
Also, there are other diseases with similar symptoms, which can confuse the issue.
However, it is important to seek medical attention when the following symptoms appear:
Diarrhea, constipation or bloating
Blood, bright red or very dark, in the stool
Narrowing of stools
Abdominal discomfort, burning sensation, bloating and clamping
Unexplained weight loss
Fatigue or weakness
Anemia
Colon Cancer Screening
Colon cancer screening is a method of helping to prevent colon cancer by find the polyps before they turn into cancer.
Men and women should begin screening at age 50.
The screening can be performed in the following ways:
Fecal Occult Blood Test (FOBT) is a test that looks for the presence of polyp or cancer cells.
Annual testing with this method significantly reduces colon cancer mortality, while biennial testing reduces mortality rates from colon cancer by 18%.
Sigmoidoscope is a procedure where a doctor inserts a tube through the anus to the lower part of the colon so as to examine for polyps, abnormalities and cancer.
Using this method, the doctor can cut any abnormal polyps and extract them for further examination.
Colonoscopy enables visual inspection of the entire large bowel and specimen collection for biopsy.
Double Contrast Barium Enema (DCBE) and CT Scan are alternative methods when patients cannot undergo colonoscopy.
Diagnosis of Colon Cancer
Doctors use a range of tests to diagnose cancer and determine if it has spread to other organs.
The method of diagnosis varies depending on several factors, such as age and health of the patient, type of cancer, severity of symptoms and earlier test results.
Diagnosis of colon cancer can be performed in the following ways:
Biopsy, which involves taking small amounts of tissue samples from the patient, is the most accurate method of detecting colon cancer and providing biomolecular predictors of cancer.
Carcinoembryonic Antigen (CEA) is a blood test used to determine the amount of red blood cells or measure the amount of a protein.
CT Scan is used to find the location of the cancer and determine how far it has spread to other parts of the body.
Ultrasound uses high frequency sound waves to determine how much the cancer has spread to the lungs or other organs.
Chest X-ray is used to determine how much the cancer has spread to the lungs.
PET Scan is a test that involves the injection of a radioactive substance into an organ or tissue in order to create images that can be examined.
Treatment of Colon Cancer
Treatment of colon cancer requires a multidisciplinary team of physicians such as surgeons, radiologists and cancer specialists who together will make the most suitable treatment plan for each individual patient.
The doctors will make their decision based on the following factors:
Size, location and characteristics of the cancer cells
Stage of disease and spread of cancer
Patient’s general health
Surgery
Radiotherapy
Chemotherapy
Targeted Therapy
Angiogenesis
Esophageal cancer occurs when an accumulation of abnormal cells form a tumor in the inner lining of the esophagus.
Once the cancer cells have grown into the wall of the esophagus, they can then spread to the lymph nodes, aorta (large blood vessel), and other parts of the body, including the lungs, liver, and stomach.
Types of Esophageal Cancer
Risk Factors
Symptoms
Diagnosis
Treatments
Types of Esophageal Cancer
Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is a growth of abnormal cells that form a layer on the lining of the esophagus, predominantly at the beginning and middle of the esophagus.
Adenocarcinoma develops from the gland cells of the esophagus.
Risk Factors
Currently, the exact causes of esophageal cancer are not known.
However, factors that increase the risk of esophageal cancer developing include:
Age: People aged between 45-70 years have the greatest risk.
Gender: Esophageal cancer is more than 3 times as common in men than in women.
Smoking: The risk increases in accordance with the length of time someone has smoked and the number of cigarettes they smoke.
Drinking: Drinking increases the risk of esophageal cancer, especially SCC.
Precancerous changes in the cells of the esophagus (Barrett’s esophagus) can lead to adenocarcinoma.
Mineral Deficiency: Not eating sufficient fruit vegetables can lead to a mineral deficiency.
Obesity
Symptoms
Esophageal cancer does not cause any noticeable symptoms in its early stage.
However, the following symptoms will occur in its advanced stage:
Difficulty swallowing, especially solid foods, such as meat, bread, or vegetables.
In its advanced stage, the cancer is large enough to limit the passage of food through the esophagus and swallowing even water may become painful.
Chest discomfort or heartburn
Abdominal bloating, indigestion
Nausea
Choking while swallowing
Unexplained weight loss
Coughing
Pain in the throat or behind the breastbone
Diagnosis
The doctor will check the patient’s history and conduct a physical examination
The patient will be given a mixture of barium and water to drink.
The barium temporarily coats the gullet, stomach and small intestine.
X-ray images can then show up any tumors or abnormalities.
An upper GI endoscopy is a procedure that allows the doctor to remove a sample of abnormal tissue for further examination.
A biopsy is usually performed during the GI endoscopy.
A computerized tomography (CT) scan generates three-dimensional images of internal organs and enables the doctor to observe the location and spread of the disease much more definitively than from a standard x-ray.
Treatments
The treatment of esophageal cancer involves the collaboration of a team of medical professionals from various fields, such as surgeons, radiologists, and oncologists, who together will plan the most suitable treatment for each patient.
The choice of treatment depends on:
Size, location and appearance of cancerous cells
Stage and spread of cancer
Patient’s overall health
Treatment Options
Surgery
Chemotherapy
Radiotherapy
Gallstones
Gallstones are more common in women than in men, especially after the age of 40.
Gallstones
Gallstones are hardened deposits of digestive fluid that form in the gallbladder and are made up of several substances, including cholesterol and bilirubin (main bile pigment), which crystalize in much the same way as sugar collecting in the bottom of a syrup jar.
Gallstones can vary in size from as tiny as a grain of sand to as large as a golf ball.
People may develop just one single stone or hundreds.
Types of Gallstones
Risk Factors for Gallstones
Symptoms of Gallstones
Diagnosis for Gallstones
Treatment for Gallstones
Types of Gallstones
There are two types of gallstones:
Cholesterol Stones: About 80% of gallstones are made primarily from cholesterol.
Usually white, yellow or green in color, they are formed when the gallbladder is unable to process an excess of cholesterol accumulating in the gallbladder bile.
Pigment Stones: Pigment stones are smaller and darker than cholesterol stones, and usually occur in patients with cirrhosis or blood disorders such as thalassemia and G6PD deficiency.
Risk Factors for Gallstones
Genetics: People with a family history of gallstones are at increased risk.
Obesity: Obesity is a high risk factor because it increases the cholesterol in the bile.
Estrogen and pregnancy: Estrogen and pregnancy increase cholesterol levels and decrease the motility of the gallbladder.
Birth control pills and hormone replacement therapy increase the risk of developing gallstones.
Gender and age: Gallstones are more common in women and older people.
Diabetes: Higher triglycerides levels and decreased gallbladder movement in people with diabetes are also risk factors.
Rapid weight loss: If a person loses weight too quickly, the liver will secrete extra cholesterol and the gallbladder does not contract often enough to empty out the bile, leading to gallstones.
Diet: Eating a high-cholesterol and low-fiber diet increases the risk of gallstones.
Symptoms of Gallstones
Gallstones generally do not cause any symptoms.
A person usually learns he or she has gallstones while being examined for another illness or during a health check-up.
When symptoms do appear, they may include:
Severe pain in the upper abdomen or right portion of the abdomen.
The pain may last for 15 minutes or several hours and may radiate into the scapula or right shoulder.
Vomiting
Nausea
Other gastrointestinal problems, including abdominal bloating, indigestion, heartburn, gas, and pain after eating fatty foods.
Acute inflammation of the gallbladder causes fever, pain in the right hypochondriac region, yellowing of the skin and eyes, and darkened urine.
Diagnosis for Gallstones
Evaluation of patient history and a physical examination
Blood test to check the functioning of the liver
Abdominal ultrasound
Treatment for Gallstones
Gallbladder surgery
Open cholecystectomy
Laparoscopic cholecystectomy
Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) is performed if the stones are in the bile ducts.
Complications after Gallbladder Surgery
The gallbladder is an organ where bile is stored.
Once the gallbladder is removed, bile flows directly from the liver, where it is made, through the small intestine.
The bile is less concentrated, but it has no effect on digestion.
Approximately 10% of people without a gallbladder may experience diarrhea from the excessive flow of bile.
Laparoscopic cholecystectomy should only be performed by a specialist because of the risk of complications, such as unintended injury to the common bile duct, bile leakage, or bile duct blockage.
Liver cancer is a common form of cancer and a leading cause of death worldwide.
Because there are usually no noticeable symptoms in the early stage of liver cancer, most patients are only diagnosed when the disease has reached its advanced stage.
Types of Liver Cancer
Risk Factors for Liver Cancer
Symptoms of Liver Cancer
Diagnosis for Liver Cancer
Treatments for Liver Cancer
Types of Liver Cancer
Hepatocellular carcinoma is the most common type of liver cancer, both worldwide and in Thailand.
Cholangiocarcinoma (Bile Duct Cancer).
Risk Factors for Liver Cancer
Cirrhosis caused by factors such as alcohol consumption or viral hepatitis
Alcohol consumption
Hepatitis B Virus (HBV) or Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) infection
Exposure to Alfatoxin contamination from peanuts, corn, dried chili peppers, etc.
Inherited and metabolic diseases, such as diabetes, which can cause fatty liver and lead to cirrhosis.
Exposure to certain chemicals or medications, such as long-term male hormones.
Symptoms of Liver Cancer
Liver cancer does not cause any noticeable symptoms in its early stage.
However, the following symptoms will occur in its advanced stage:
Pain, especially in the upper right abdomen.
In some cases, the pain radiates to the back or shoulder.
Swollen abdomen
Unexplained weight loss
Loss of appetite
Fatigue
Unexplained fever
Lump in the liver
Yellowing of the skin and eyes
Diagnosis for Liver Cancer
The doctor will check the patient’s history and conduct a physical examination.
Blood tests are taken to look for liver function abnormalities, viral hepatitis, and alpha-fetoprotein.
Imaging tests such as ultrasound, computerized tomography (CT scan) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are used.
The patient will be given a biopsy (non-invasive removal of a sample of liver tissue for testing)
Treatments for Liver Cancer
The most appropriate treatment option will depend on the severity of the condition, the size and appearance of the cancerous cells, the stage and spread of the cancer, and the patients’ overall health.
Treatment options include the following:
Surgery
Chemotherapy
Radiotherapy
Liver transplant surgery is an option for patients under the age of 70 with a tumor of less than 5 cm.
Prevention is preferable to cure for liver cancer.
However, treatment can be effective if the liver cancer is detected early through screening.
Up to 90% of liver cancers are caused by HBV and HCV infections that lead to cirrhosis and liver cancer.
The liver cancer will then double within 3-6 months.
Patients with HBV and HBC should have a liver ultrasound as well as blood tests to check for liver function abnormalities, viral hepatitis and alpha-fetoprotein every 3 months.
Prostate Cancer
The prostate is a gland located below a male’s bladder.
Its main function is to secrete prostatic fluid, which makes up a large portion of seminal fluid.
The prostate is also responsible for propelling sperm during sexual intercourse.
Unfortunately, the prostate may become cancerous in certain males.
Prostate cancer is the leading cancer in men worldwide.
Prostate Cancer Risk Factors
Symptoms of Prostate Cancer
Prostate Cancer Screening and Diagnosis
The Stages of Prostate Cancer
Treatment Options for Prostate Cancer
Prostate Cancer Risk Factors
Doctors find that cases of prostate cancer are increasing around the world.
Some of the factors which might increase a man’s risk of prostate cancer include:
Age – The older a man is, the greater the chance of prostate cancer.
Most cases of prostate cancer are found in men 50 years and older.
Family History – Having a father or brother who has had prostate cancer.
Region – Prostate cancer is more common in North America and Europe (especially northwestern Europe); it is less common in Asia.
Diet – Diets that are high in fat and long-term or regular red meat consumption.
Symptoms of Prostate Cancer
Prostate cancer in its early stages is usually not accompanied by any noticeable symptoms.
As the cancer grows, however, it begins to put more pressure on the urethra, and will then begin to cause a variety of symptoms especially affecting the lower urinary tract.
For example, more frequent urination (especially at night); pain or burning sensation while urinating; urinary retention (an inability to fully empty the bladder); difficulty in starting, maintaining, or stopping the urine stream; straining to urinate, etc.
If left untreated, patients will have greater difficulty and more frequent urination, to the point that they may urinate blood.
Prostate Cancer Screening and Diagnosis
If you have the symptoms of prostate cancer, the doctor will perform a physical examination and additional tests to confirm the diagnosis as follows:
Digital Rectal Examination (DRE) – As part of a physical examination, your doctor inserts a gloved and lubricated finger into your rectum and feels toward the front of your body in order to check the size, shape and flexibility of the prostate.
Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) Blood Test – PSA will be at an elevated level in patients with prostate cancer.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
Transrectal Ultrasound ( TRUS) – This test uses sound waves, in which the doctor will insert an ultrasound probe (a machine that uses sound waves to build a picture of the inside of your body) into your rectum toward the position of the prostate.
A small needle is then used to take 12 core samples from 12 biopsy sites.
These samples will then be sent to a lab for a pathology examination.
MRI/Ultrasound Fusion Biopsy – This is the use of three-dimensional imaging technology coupled with ultrasound guidance in real-time, which allows doctors to see both the details and position of the cancerous tumor in the prostate much more clearly.
This means they are then able to guide the biopsy needles precisely to the lesion they want to sample as opposed to random biopsy sampling.
The Stages of Prostate Cancer
The stages of the cancer are determined by the location of the cancer cells, what parts of the body the cancer has spread to, and abnormal functioning of bodily organs.
Knowledge of the stage of the cancer is important to treatment, as it helps the doctor with determining the most appropriate treatment.
Prostate cancer is divided into 4 stages:
Stage 1 – This is the beginning stage.
Cancer is found in the prostate only and cancer cells have not yet spread.
Stage 2 – The tumor has grown slightly larger, and is found in more than one-half of one lobe of the prostate or in both lobes, but has not spread beyond the prostate.
Stage 3 – Cancer cells have spread and broken through the outer layer of the prostate gland and may have spread into the seminal vesicles (tubes that carry semen).
Stage 4 – Cancer cells have spread (metastasized) outside the prostate to other tissues, commonly including the bones and lymph nodes.
Treatment Options for Prostate Cancer
Treatment options for prostate cancer are determined by location, size, stage of cancer, physical and mental condition of the patient, as well as the quality of life of the patient after treatment.
Currently, treatment options include the following:
Surgery , which is divided into 2 main methods:
Laparoscopic Radical Prostatectomy – This type of surgery has been developed from traditional open abdominal surgery.
With this method, the doctor inserts a tiny camera called a laparoscope and other special instruments through 5 tiny incisions in the abdomen below the navel, and performs the surgery via the images viewed on a monitor.
The results of this type of surgery include less pain for patients, faster recovery, fewer side effects, and better treatment results than those associated with open abdominal surgery.
Robotic–assisted da Vinci Surgery or Da Vinci Prostatectomy) – This procedure involves the use of robotic arms which are controlled by the surgeon.
It not only has the advantages of less pain and faster recovery time as is the case with laparoscopic surgery, but it also increases the chances of patients being able to control urinary incontinence post-surgery and minimizes the risks of erectile dysfunction.
Radiation Therapy – This includes both brachytherapy (internal radiation) and external beam radiation.
The type of radiation therapy used depends on whether the level of the prostate cancer is low-risk, intermediate-risk, or high-risk.
Chemotherapy – Improved treatment results are currently being seen with chemotherapy.
At the same time, doctors also have methods for relieving and minimizing adverse reactions that are side effects of the drugs.
Hormone Therapy – This is often used as an additional treatment after surgery or in cases where the cancer is in a metastatic stage.
With this treatment, the physician will try to reduce or stop the body from producing the male hormone testosterone through medication – if medication is not successful, surgical options would need to be considered.
Robot-Assisted Surgery and the Da Vinci System Through robot-assisted surgery, surgical procedures result in more accurate, safe, and effective outcomes, while also allowing for smaller incisions, minimal blood loss, faster recovery, and a reduced risk of complications post-surgery.
The technology has been brought on to tackle surgeries previously deemed too complex or in too difficult-to-access areas.
The Da Vinci Robotic Surgical System Consists of 3 Main Components:
The Surgical Cart (a robotic cart at the patient’s side) – This performs the surgery and is controlled by a computer that exactly replicates the movements of the surgeon who operates the robot’s controls from the console.
The robotic cart contains the robot’s 4 arms.
The first of these arms holds the system’s cameras which send high-definition 3-D view of the patient’s internal organs at the surgical site back to the surgeon at the console.
This gives the surgeon a clear, detailed view of the internal organs, tissues, and nerves.
The remaining 3 arms can hold a multitude of different endowrist instruments that can be rotated and bended in 7 different degrees of motion.
This means that the movements of the robotic instruments mirror those of human hands, but with more detail and finesse thanks to computerized assistance.
The Surgeon’s Console – This is where the surgeon sits and operates the master controls to perform the surgery using a stereoscopic monitor that provides a 3-D view of the surgical site.
Throughout the surgery, the surgeon will sit at the console and perform the surgery using both hands to manipulate the master controls as if they were performing normal surgery.
The system then transmits and seamlessly translates the surgeon's hand, wrist and finger movements into precise, real-time movements of the surgical instruments within the patient’s body.
The Computer Control Tower – This is an important component that helps to regulate, analyze, and process data signals between the surgeon and the robot.
Is Robot-Assisted Surgery Right for You?
Doctors use the Da Vinci Surgical System in the treatment of almost all organ systems.
Examples of conditions and diseases which are appropriate for the use of robot-assisted surgery include:
Gastrointestinal system diseases, such as esophageal cancer and colorectal cancer
Diseases of the liver, pancreas, and biliary system, such as liver cancer, gallbladder cancer, and gallstones
Urinary tract diseases, including prostate cancer, bladder cancer and kidney cancer
Gynecological diseases, such as uterine cancer or fibroids, ovarian tumors and pelvic organ prolapse
Respiratory and chest diseases, such as lung cancer and chest wall tumors
Preparing for Robot-Assisted Surgery
The process is the same as any standard surgery.
The patient’s physical condition will be evaluated prior to surgery.
The doctor will compile information from the patient’s medical history, a physical examination, and laboratory test results, just as in other surgical procedures, in order to ensure that the patient is physically and mentally prepared to undergo surgery.
With regards to preparing the patient for surgery, the process will include providing the patient with information about how the anesthesia works, postoperative care, and any possible complications that may occur
Patients must not eat or drink anything before surgery.
Antimicrobials will also be given to minimize any risk of infection.
Advantages of Robot-Assisted Surgery
This kind of surgery is both very accurate and safe, as the surgeon has an extremely clear view of the internal organs and surgical site.
The robotic arms are able to bend and rotate the endowrist instruments in 7 different degrees of motion, which is a huge advantage, especially for complicated surgeries or those in difficult-to-reach positions
The procedure results in reduced postoperative complications
Patients experience less blood loss and a faster recovery due to the small incisions of the minimally invasive surgery
Possible Risks and Complications
Use of the Da Vinci system in robot-assisted surgery has the same risks and can cause complications just like most other types of surgery.
The types of complications depend on the condition of the patient and the severity of the disease.
Robotic-assisted surgery is not suitable for all patients.
Doctors will consider whether or not it is appropriate and will give a clear description of any risks or complications that may occur for each individual patient.
What to Expect After Robotic-Assisted Surgery
Patients will spend less time recuperating in the hospital and can expect to return to their normal routine and everyday lives much more quickly than with traditional surgery.
Postoperative self-care and behavior depends on the medical condition of each individual patient and will be explained in detail by the doctor.
Birmingham hip resurfacing surgery is a procedure in which the surface of the hip’s ball and socket joint is replaced with an artificial material.
This procedure preserves the bones present in the hip joint, and is offered as an alternative to total hip replacement surgery.
With this treatment method, only the surfaces of the joints are replaced.
Suitable Candidates for Birmingham Hip Resurfacing Surgery
Although Birmingham Hip Resurfacing surgery may be a desirable option for many, suitable candidates for the procedure are limited to those under the age of 65 years who have good bone quality.
Benefits of Birmingham Hip Resurfacing Surgery
Birmingham hip resurfacing surgery has lower rates of dislocation than standard hip replacement surgery.
Furthermore, as patients who undergo the procedure are of a relatively younger age and have their hip bones preserved means that any revision surgeries could be done much easier than standard hip replacement.
Birmingham hip resurfacing surgery uses metal on metal components, which allows for an average lifespan of 10 years for 95.4% of patients, although in some cases, even up to 20-25 years.
Post-Surgery Care
Patients return from surgery with a large dressing on the hip area.
They may be required to wear “anti-embolism” stockings to reduce the risk of developing blood clots.
A small drainage tube will be placed during surgery to help drain excess fluids from the joint area.
Rehabilitation and physical therapy are started immediately following surgery and continue throughout hospitalization and at home for one year after surgery.
Additionally, periodical blood analyses to evaluate cobalt and chromium levels are performed.
Factors which Can Affect Surgery Candidacy
Due to this being a surgical technique which requires highly-skilled specialists, there are currently only a handful of institutions offering the procedure in Thailand, Bumrungrad International being one of them.
Those who do seek out Birmingham hip resurfacing surgery must first have a physical examination and x-ray of their hip to determine the severity of the disease, and assess the version (angle) of the femoral neck in relation to the femur, as these factors can have an effect on the success rate of surgery.
Gout is a common type of inflammatory arthritis, resulting from an accumulation of uric acid crystals inside the joint, which causes episodic joint swelling, redness, and pain.
Gout is more common among men and rarely occurs in pre-menopausal women.
It can be treated and controlled to prevent complications and recurrent gout attacks.
Causes and Risk Factors of Gout
Gout is caused by a continuously high level of uric acid in the body, which in turn leads to an accumulation of crystalized uric acid around and inside the joints.
This can cause sudden and severe pain as well as swelling and inflammation.
Like the body’s other waste products, uric acid is produced during the elimination of aging cells.
About 70% of the body’s uric acid is produced in the body, while the other 30% usually comes from food consumed.
Factors associated with high levels of uric acid in the body include:
Eating foods that stimulate more uric acid production such as high-fructose corn syrup and honey
Eating foods that are high in uric acid, e.g. meat, innards, seafood, alcoholic drinks.
Illnesses that lead to an overproduction of cells (e.g., cancer, leukemia, and psoriasis)
Illnesses that cause the body to produce more uric acid than normal or reduces its ability to flush out all of the uric acid effectively (e.g., obesity, diabetes, high blood pressure, and kidney disease)
Use of certain types of drugs that cause a reduction of uric acid excretion via the kidneys
Symptoms of Gout
Gout patients experience acute and sudden inflammation (pain, redness, heat, and swelling) around the affected joint.
Gout usually starts from the joint at the base of the big toe, but it can also affect other joints of the feet, as well as joints of the knees and hands.
Gout may come and go at first, but if it is not treated properly, the inflammation may become more severe, causing the patient to feel pain more frequently, develop more frequent attacks and/or longer durations of attacks.
This in turn can lead to chronic arthritis or permanent joint damage, and can cause other complications such as kidney stones or kidney failure.
Diagnosis of Gout
In addition to a physical examination, doctors can diagnose gout using the following methods:
The doctor may take fluid from a swollen joint to check whether it contains uric acid crystals.
This is the main confirmative method for the diagnosis.
The doctor may take a blood sample to measure the uric acid level.
However, a high level of uric acid in the bloodstream does not always mean that the process of crystallization in the joint has begun.
A dual energy CT scan is a special type of X-ray which can visualize the accumulation of uric acid crystals inside the joint without requiring a fluid sample.
This kind of testing is suitable for cases in which the crystals have bound together to form large deposits, which can be seen by an X-ray.
Treatment of Gout
Long-term treatment of gout aims to reduce the amount of uric acid inside the body.
There is also an additional treatment to stop joint inflammation during each attack.
Affected patients need to take gout medication continuously to prevent future gout attacks and possible complications.
As well, medication reduces the risk of the formation of nodules or lumps of crystals in soft tissue, kidney problems, and tophi (a deposit of uric acid crystals).
Prevention and Self-Care for Gout Patients
Patients can prevent gout by making lifestyle changes, such as not eating foods that are high in uric acid.
In terms of self-care, patients can:
Maintain scheduled doctor’s appointments and take any medication as instructed.
Avoid foods that are high in uric acid, such as meat (especially poultry), innards, seafood, and alcoholic drinks.
Also, avoid fructose (found in carbonated drinks), glucose, corn syrup, and honey, as these can stimulate more uric acid production.
Maintain an optimal weight; but do not lose weight too suddenly or too rapidly, as doing so could also increase uric acid levels.
Drink an adequate amount of water daily.
If you develop an acute gout attack, stop using the inflamed joint until the pain and swelling resolves.
Arrhythmia is an irregular heartbeat - the heart may beat too fast or too slowly.
The condition is caused by changes in the heart’s electrical system or a short circuit in the heart.
This causes the heart to pump blood inefficiently resulting in poor blood circulation in the body.
This can lead to an increased risk of heart failure and stroke.
Types of Arrhythmia
Causes of Arrhythmia
Symptoms of Arrhythmia
Diagnosis of Arrhythmia
Arrhythmia Treatment Options
Prevention of Arrhythmia
Types of Arrhythmia
There are two major types of arrhythmia as follows:
Tachycardias (the heartbeat is too fast)
Bradycardia (the heartbeat is too slow)
Causes of Arrhythmia
The causes of arrhythmia vary in each patient.
Whether the heartbeat becomes faster or slower depends on the individual’s lifestyle, health history and environment.
Common causes of arrhythmia include:
Congenital defects or heart defects, such as congenital heart disease, valvular heart disease, hypertrophy (swelling of the heart), and ischemic heart disease (coronary artery disease).
Physical abnormalities which affect the ability of the heart to function well, such as high blood pressure, high blood cholesterol, diabetes, thyrotoxicosis, and electrolyte imbalance.
Certain medications and substances and caffeine in tea, coffee or carbonated drinks.
Stress and anxiety
Symptoms of Arrhythmia
Most patients with arrhythmia do not know that they have this problem.
Arrhythmia is mostly discovered during a medical check-up or the treatment of other diseases.
However, some patients experience the following symptoms:
Dizziness
Blackouts
Lightheadedness
Palpitations
Chest pain
Fainting and collapsing
Diagnosis of Arrhythmia
Patient information is collected, including caffeine consumption (such as in tea, coffee or carbonated drinks) and underlying diseases (such as coronary thrombosis, high blood pressure, diabetes, and thyroid diseases)
Electrocardiogram (ECG or EKG) is performed when symptoms are observed at hospital or could performed at home as:
Holter monitoring test (a test of the heart’s rate and rhythm) is performed for 24 or 48 hours if the patient experiences symptoms often but not constantly.
Event recorder is only used when you have symptoms.
Exercise Stress Test (EST)
Echocardiogram
Cardiac electrophysiology study
Arrhythmia Treatment Options
The doctor will choose a treatment based on the causes, symptoms, location and severity of the disease.
Some types of arrhythmia may not require treatment.
However, medical treatment is needed for certain types of arrhythmia as follows:
Heart Rate Control Medications: Although the medications do not cure the problem, they can reduce episodes of arrhythmia and the severity of the symptoms.
Some rhythm disorders respond well to medication.
Pacemaker: In order to maintain the heart rate at a regular beat, a small device called a pacemaker is placed under the skin near the collarbone with a wire extending from the device to the heart.
The pacemaker helps regulate and optimize heart-rate-related functions.
Cardioversion: Cardioversion is used to slow down a rapid heartbeat.
This is done externally in a monitored setting.
A small electrical shock is delivered to the chest wall that synchronizes the heart rate in order to bring the heart back to a normal rhythm.
Ablation Therapy: This procedure is used to eliminate the source of the irregular heartbeat and can permanently cure certain heart arrhythmias.
Ablation therapy is usually combined with electrophysiology study.
A catheter is threaded through to the area of the heart that is believed to be the source of the arrhythmia.
High-frequency electrical energy is then delivered to eliminate the small area of tissue inside the heart that causes the abnormal heart rhythm.
Implantable cardioverter defibrillator: This is a similar procedure to implanting a pacemaker.
This device is recommended if the patient is at risk of developing a dangerously irregular heartbeat in the lower half of the heart (ventricular fibrillation).
If the device detects a rhythm that is too slow, it will stimulate the heartbeat.
In contrast, when the heart beats too fast, a series of small electrical impulses will be delivered to the heart muscle to slow it down and restore a normal heart rate.
Prevention of Arrhythmia
There is no guaranteed method for preventing arrhythmia, but you can reduce the risk in the following ways:
Don’t smoke, reduce stress, and drink coffee and alcohol in moderation, or not at all.
Eat a healthy diet and exercise regularly.
See your doctor for regular medical check-ups.
Hip osteoarthritis is a form of joint disease caused by cartilage in the joints wearing away due to various factors, leading to pain and stiffness.
In severe cases, the condition can have a negative effect on a patient’s daily life, such as difficulty with walking, dressing, tying shoes, going up and down stairs, or even getting a good night’s sleep.
Causes of Hip Osteoarthritis
Common causes of hip osteoarthritis include:
Genetics; chances of developing the condition are increased if there is a family history of arthritis
Poor blood supply to the bones, either temporary or permanent
Rheumatoid arthritis or other inflammatory joint diseases
Previous injuries to the hip, such as hip dislocation or fractures
Infections
Abnormality of the hip joint, such as hip dysplasia
Symptoms of Hip Osteoarthritis
Common symptoms of hip osteoarthritis include:
Initial signs of hip osteoarthritis include pain in the groin area or front of the thighs and a feeling of stiffness during movement of the hip joint.
Symptoms worsen during physical activity and decrease while resting.
In cases where there is severe pain, it could lead to muscle deterioration as the muscles around the hip joint weaken through inactivity.
When there is inflammation of the hip joint, bone spurs around the hip joint may occur.
Furthermore, if the cartilage is completely worn away, this may cause extreme pain as the bones grind together.
The leg may even shorten because of this.
Diagnosing Hip Osteoarthritis
The following are the standard methods often used to diagnose hip osteoarthritis:
A full body examination and evaluation of the patient’s medical history
An x-ray
Special investigations, such as CT scan and MRI
Treating Hip Osteoarthritis
Treatment of hip osteoarthritis is divided into:
Non-surgical treatments – For the initial stages of hip osteoarthritis in order to reduce pain as well as slow down the course of the condition:
Lifestyle modifications – Examples include getting enough sleep and doing non-strenuous exercise such as swimming, water aerobics and/or cycling.
Weight reduction – If overweight or obese, weight loss can reduce stress on the joints.
Non-steroidal pain relief medications – Reduces pain and inflammation.
Physical therapy – In order to build up the muscles around the hip and to reduce joint stiffness.
Using a walking stick or other walking aids on the opposite side of the affected hip – This helps to take the weight and pressure off the affected hip, making walking much easier.
Surgical treatments
Arthroscopic Surgery – This is offered to patients whose hip joint cartilage is torn or has bone fragments present, or where the cartilage has seeped into the joint causing a grinding of the bones and severely hindering movement.
Hip Osteotomy – A form of surgery which realigns the hip joint to offload the damaged cartilage contact area.
This technique can be utilized if one area has become damaged but the other areas surrounding it are unaffected.
Hip Replacement Surgery – This is offered to patients who suffer from severe joint pain or have a congenital hip joint defect that can affect their ability to lead a normal life.
Standard total hip replacement surgery
Robotic arm assisted hip replacement surgery (MAKOplasty)
With such a range of options available, it is important that patients seek the advice of their doctor, who will consider which treatment technique is most suitable for each individual patient.
Knee osteoarthritis is caused by wear and tear of the knee cartilage, which is responsible for protecting and reducing the impact on the bones within the joint.
If a large area of knee cartilage is affected, the bones in the knee joint will rub together causing inflammation and pain.
Generally, in cases of knee joint deterioration, it initially involves the inner part of the knee joint.
However, with increased wear and tear, all three compartments of the joint may be affected — the inside of the joint, the outside of the joint and the kneecap (patella).
Causes of Knee Osteoarthritis
Common causes of knee osteoarthritis include:
Genetics or certain types of congenital abnormalities
Age and gender; as we age, our body’s ability to repair cartilage is reduced.
Moreover, women over the age of 50 have a higher prevalence of knee osteoarthritis than men of the same age
Being overweight (A BMI of over 23kg/m2)
Previous knee injuries:
After a knee injury, even though the body repaired itself, the knee joint was not restored to its former strength
Receiving inadequate treatment for a knee injury
Repetitive overuse of the knees or assuming positions which put a strain on the knees.
For example, kneeling or crouching, both of which put more than the usual amounts of pressure on the knees if done for too long or too frequently
Arthritic conditions, such as rheumatoid arthritis or gout, which have an effect on knee cartilage to the extent that it is completely worn away, leading to pain and stiffness
Diagnosing Knee Osteoarthritis
The following are the standard methods often used to diagnose knee osteoarthritis:
An assessment of the patient’s medical history, their previous ailments and a full body check-up
X-ray
Blood analysis
CT Scan and MRI
Treating Knee Osteoarthritis
Non-surgical treatments – These can help to alleviate pain and increase the movement capabilities of the knee:
Making lifestyle alterations, such as eating a healthy and balanced diet to control weight, and choosing forms of regular exercise that have minimal impact on the knees such as swimming, cycling and walking, in order to strengthen the knee
Losing any excess weight in order to reduce pressure on the knees
Taking pain-killer and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications
Training the leg muscles and attending physical therapy sessions
Knee replacement surgery
Unicompartmental (partial) knee arthroplasty (UKA)
Standard unicompartmental (partial) Knee Arthroplasty
Robot-assisted unicompartmental (partial) knee arthroplasty (MAKOplasty)
Total knee replacement (TKR)
Standard total knee replacement (TKR)
Computer-assisted total knee replacement
Robot-assisted total knee replacement (MAKOplasty)
With such a range of options available, it is important that patients consult their doctor on the most suitable course of treatment.
Total Knee Replacement Surgery
Total knee replacement surgery is seen as the standard procedure in the treatment of patients with severe joint damage.
It is one of the most effective treatments available.
Although the surgery is referred to as joint replacement surgery, in actuality, the only thing “replaced” is the surface of the damaged joint, similar to the capping of a tooth.
The bones are re-positioned and re-aligned as close to normal as possible.
Suitable Candidates for Total Knee Replacement Surgery
Total knee replacement surgery is suitable for patients suffering from severe knee joint damage in which the joint is out of its position or moving irregularly.
It is usually selected as an option after non-surgical treatments such as pain medication, physical rehabilitation, and lifestyle changes have been proven unsuccessful.
Types of Knee Prostheses and Their Expected Life Span
Artificial knee joints have been consistently developing and improving for almost 50 years.
Knee prostheses today have characteristics very similar to normal knees.
The meniscus of the artificial joint is manufactured from Polyethylene that has been treated with radiation or additional antioxidants.
Implants are made of cobalt chrome, titanium, or ceramic material.
There are numerous knee prostheses types and models.
Specialists will offer patients advice and assistance in selecting an artificial knee joint to assure they choose the one most suitable.
Artificial knee joints have an expected life span of over 25-30 years, although the actual lifespan of the artificial joint does depend on each individual.
Nevertheless, 85-90% of patients generally get about 20 years of good use out of their artificial joint.
Pre and Post-Surgery
Pre-surgery and post-surgery preparations are highly important.
Before proceeding with surgery, patients will get to learn about the procedure step-by-step — before, during, and after surgery.
They will learn the roles of the physician and anesthesiologist, as well as the roles of the physical rehabilitation team such as muscle strength training and helping the patient learn how to walk with their new joint.
In most cases, with pain medication administered both before and after surgery, patients are able to stand and walk the day after surgery and return home 3-5 days later.
Amblyopia (Lazy Eye)
Amblyopia occurs in 3-5% of the population.
It occurs due to factors that cause blurry vision in the first seven years of a child’s live, which is when the highest visual development occurs.
This leads to the affected eye receiving fewer images from the brain, causing decreased vision.
This loss of vision can range from minimal to severe, and can be permanent if it is not corrected early or before the age of seven.
Common Causes
Crossed eyes (strabismus).
Nearsightedness, farsightedness, excessive astigmatism or unequal astigmatism in both eyes.
Eye disorders that cause vision obstructions, such as cataracts or droopy eyelids.
Disorders of the retina and optic nerves.
Eye Disorders Frequently Found in Children and Recommended Screening by the World Health Organization (WHO) for Early Treatment
Premature Infants
Infants
Preschoolers(3-5 years)
School-Aged(> 6 years)
Retinopathy of prematurity
Cataracts
Glaucoma
Disorders having to do with abnormalities of the front of the eyes
Amblyopia (lazy eye)
Crossed eyes (strabismus)
Excessive or unequal astigmatism
Abnormal vision
Frequency of Children’s Visit to the Ophthalmologist
Divided into two groups:
Group 1: Children with abnormalities, such as:
Premature infants (with paediatrician recommendation to see an ophthalmologist).
Children with mental and developmental abnormalities.
Children with other chronic conditions that the doctor believes may be related to eye disorders.
Children with noticeable vision problems, such as visual impairment, droopy eyelid, crossed eyes, myopia, tearing, red eyes, and white spots on cornea.
Children with family members who have eye disorders that may be transmitted genetically, such as retinoblastoma, macular degeneration, and cataracts.
Parents of this group of children must bring them to see an ophthalmologist immediately when an abnormality is noticed to ensure early treatment because, in some cases, late diagnosis and treatment can lead to long-term visual problems.
Group 2: Children with normal vision
If parents are certain that their children have normal vision, they may bring their children to see an ophthalmologist according to the schedule below:
First time at three to six months
Normally a pediatrician will observe general response of the child, but parents may bring their child to see an ophthalmologist if they are unsure about whether or not their child’s vision is normal as the ophthalmologist will be able to tell if the child’s visual response is normal or not, and whether the child’s eye movements are normal or not and if the child may have amblyopia, which is commonly found at this age.
Treatment is more effective now than at a later stage.
Second time at approximately three years old
In the United States this visit is recommended for all children as it is the first time that eyesight can be measured and even if a child seems to see properly, they may have amblyopia.
Eye conditions most commonly found and treated during this time are amblyopia and strabismus.
Third time at approximately five to six years old
Since this is the period where a child uses their eyes more, it is natural that this is the stage where near/farsightedness and astigmatism develop.
Thus is it important that a child has their vision checked regularly to see if they need glasses or not.
Furthermore, amblyopia found at this age can be treated very effectively.
Following visits should be every one to two years until 18 years old, or according to any vision problems that occur or that are diagnosed.
Important Information
Near/farsightedness and astigmatism is commonly found between the ages of six and 18 and can change each year due to a number of factors, such as growing bodies, genetics, the environment and how eyes are used.
Correcting near/farsightedness and astigmatism with glasses is usually done to allow children improved vision, but may become very necessary in children already suffering from amblyopia or to prevent amblyopia from occurring.
Good vision can increase efficiency in learning and doing various activities, and not correcting impaired vision may affect other parts of the body and cause eye pain or headaches, and is believed to cause even quicker changes of vision as well.
Simple, basic eye care from the very beginning can prevent eye disorders in your children.
Childhood Epilepsy
Epilepsy is one of the most common conditions that affect the central nervous system.
It can affect anyone of any age or gender but is particularly prevalent in children and the elderly.
Currently, rates of epilepsy are at around 0.5–1% of the worldwide population.
Epilepsy is a condition that can have an effect on childhood development, both in terms of knowledge acquisition and social interaction.
If the condition is left untreated, it can cause the child to regress in terms of neurocognitive development.
If parents or guardians suspect that their child may be suffering from epilepsy, it’s vital they see doctor urgently in order to get an early diagnosis and the proper treatment.
Causes of Epilepsy
Epilepsy occurs due to an abnormality in the electrical impulses of the brain which causes seizures.
Often, epilepsy is found in children who are otherwise of good health, are developing normally, and do not display any outward signs of a medical issue, but unfortunately, have a brain abnormality brought upon by various underlying factors.
However, suffering from a seizure does not always mean that the child is epileptic.
Differential diagnosis:
Seizures which occur when there is a temporary irregularity in the brain’s electrical impulses, leading to symptoms that temporarily affect the central nervous system.
Symptoms may last for seconds or minutes.
This type of seizure can be treated if the causes are targeted, such as a low glucose level or brain tumor.
Epilepsy occurs because of a permanent disruption to the electrical impulses in the brain.
The condition leads to repeated seizures which do not require any stimulus to occur.
Convulsions are when the muscles contract and relax repeatedly and rapidly.
Epileptic seizures are often the cause of convulsions, but not all seizures lead to convulsions and not all convulsions are due to seizures.
Symptoms of Epilepsy
There are various symptoms of epilepsy, depending on the area of the brain which is affected.
Some symptoms are difficult to observe, which means that many parents and guardians are often unaware that their child is suffering from epilepsy.
That being said, parents and guardians should be particularly observant of their child; if their child’s behavior and learning worsens with no clear explanation, or if their child displays strange or repetitive behaviors such as absent mindedness, not responding to their name being called, laughing without reason, or show signs of hallucination.
The types of seizures most commonly found in children are:
Absence Seizures – Children will have an absent look in their eyes or become unusually still during conversation.
They may also fail to respond to their name being called.
There are generally no muscular symptoms, however, if there are, they are generally limited to a rapid blinking of the eyes.
These seizures usually occur in children between the ages of 5-10 years.
Full Body Seizures – These seizures cause the child’s body to spasm uncontrollably and leave them with no memory of the episode.
Diagnosing Epilepsy
Finding out the exact cause of the condition will have a great effect on the effectiveness of treatment, as well as in determining which treatment route to take.
In addition to a detailed evaluation of the patient’s medical history, doctors have equipment available to help them accurately target the site of the abnormality in the patient’s brain responsible for the epilepsy, such as:
Electroencephalogram (EEG) – This helps diagnose epilepsy and identify the location in the brain which is causing the seizures, as well as identify the type of seizure.
CT scan and MRI scans – These help doctors by giving them a clear picture of what is causing the seizures.
Treating Epilepsy
Medication is the main form of treatment for epilepsy, which prevents seizures from occurring.
Medication is usually administered for a period of 2 years or more.
Treatment may also include targeting the cause(s) of the epilepsy itself.
Epilepsy sufferers can usually be cured of their condition, but for some epileptics, it is only possible to restrict the number of seizures they may suffer from through continuous courses of medication.
Currently, there are numerous types of medications that are able to safely and efficiently control seizures.
Approximately 70% of epileptics are able to treat or control the symptoms by taking medication and avoiding situations that can stimulate a seizure.
Furthermore, doctors may advise a ketogenic diet which has been shown to help to reduce seizures.
For the most part, dietary restrictions such as this can be used for children in whom seizures are more difficult to regulate and when medication is not producing the desired effect.
For groups of patients who are not responding to medication, doctors may offer an alternative choice in the form of surgery.
Bumrungrad International Hospital currently offers an innovative, modern surgical technique called SEEG.
The hospital was the first private hospital in Thailand to offer such a method to its patients.
The surgery involves inserting electrodes into the brain to locate the exact site from which the seizure emanated before operating on that site.
This type of surgery has produced satisfactory results.
Prevention and Care for Children with Epilepsy
Quickly and efficiently treating the pathology in the brain which is causing the seizures can reduce the risks of brain injury for the child suffering from epilepsy.
Parents and guardians can also help to treat their epileptic child by making sure they take their medication as prescribed by their doctor, seeing that they get sufficient rest, not allowing them to climb high-up on the playground, making sure they don’t swim alone, and making sure they do not leave designated routes when cycling.
Moreover, parents and guardians should be aware of the following first aid procedures that can be administered to epileptics:
Ensure the child is in the recovery position during a seizure: they should be laying on their side with their head facing to one side.
Do not put anything in their mouth or try to pull at their mouth to prevent them biting their tongue, as this will risk them chipping their teeth or choking on the object.
Be sure to observe and record the amount of time the seizure episode lasts.
If the child’s seizure ends before 5 minutes, they may not require medical attention straight away.
However, if the child’s seizure lasts longer than 5 minutes, or they suffer more than one seizure in a day, first aid should be correctly administered before heading to the hospital immediately.
Childhood Obesity
Many​ ​parents​ ​may​ ​consider​ ​a child​ ​being​ ​overweight​​ ​to​ ​be​ ​normal, however,​ ​it​ ​can​ ​actually​ ​lead​ ​to various​ ​health problems,​ ​either​ ​physical​ ​or​ ​related​ ​to​ ​mental​ ​health​ ​(​low self-esteem​ ​and​ ​depression).
So it’s important for parents to encourage their children to eat healthy and have healthy lifestyle habits in order to maintain a healthy weight.
Causes​ ​of​ ​Childhood​ ​Obesity
Childhood​ ​obesity​ ​ ​mostly​ ​stems​ ​from​ ​an​ ​imbalance​ ​between​ ​energy​ ​consumption and​ ​energy​ ​use, which results​ ​from​ ​several​ ​different​ ​factors including:
Eating​ and​ ​lifestyle habits​ ​–​ ​​ The​ ​consumption​ ​of​ ​high-energy​ ​foods​ ​or​ ​drinks combined​ ​with​ ​a​ ​lack​ ​of​ ​regular​ ​exercise.
Heredity​ ​–​ It​ ​has​ ​been​ ​found​ ​that​ ​children​ ​who​ ​have​ ​obese ​parents​ ​or siblings​ ​are​ ​more​ ​likely​ ​to​ ​be​ ​obese​ ​as well.​
​Nowadays,​ ​however,​ ​it​ ​is believed​ ​that​ ​obesity​ ​is​ ​the​ ​product​ ​of​ ​both​ ​hereditary​ ​and​ ​environmental causes, such​ as​ ​diet​ ​and​ ​lifestyle.
Hormonal​ ​disorders​ ​–​ ​​ Hormone​ ​deficiency,​ ​hypothyroidism,​ ​and​ ​excess glucocorticoid​ ​hormones​ ​are​ ​hormonal​ ​disorders​ ​which​ ​are​ ​usually​ ​found​ ​in overweight​ ​children.
Diseases​ ​or​ ​syndromes​ ​–​ ​ ​Conditions​ ​such​ ​as​ ​​Prader​ ​Willi​ ​syndrome​ or​ ​​ pseudohypoparathyroidism​ ​​are​ ​often found in​ ​overweight​ ​and​ ​short​ ​statured​ ​children.
Health​ ​Issues​ ​Resulting​ ​from​ ​Childhood​ ​Obesity
Childhood​ ​obesity​ ​can​ ​affect​ ​both​ ​a​ ​child’s​ ​physical​ ​and​ ​mental​ ​health​ ​in​ ​the following​ ​ways:
Dyslipidemia,​ ​​ which​ ​may​ ​lead​ ​to​ ​greater​ ​chances​ ​of​ ​cardiovascular​ ​diseases in​ ​adulthood
High​ ​blood​ ​pressure
Diabetes​ ​or​ ​metabolic​ ​disorders​ ​from​ ​consuming​ ​too​ ​many​ ​carbohydrates
Bone​ ​or​ ​joint​ ​disorders,​ ​such​ ​as​ ​​scoliosis​,​ ​​ bowed-leggedness​,​ ​or​ ​​flat​ ​feet
Skin​ ​conditions,​ ​such​ ​as​ ​fungal​ ​infections​ ​or​ ​a susceptibility​ ​to​ ​skin​ ​infections
Snoring​ ​and​ ​sleep​ ​apnea
Irregular​ ​menstruation​ ​in​ ​females,​ ​leading​ ​to​ ​infertility​ ​in​ ​adulthood
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), the most common cause of liver disease in children
Low​ ​self-esteem​ ​and​ ​depression
Diagnosing​ ​Childhood​ ​Obesity
If​ ​a​ ​child​ ​is​ ​found​ ​to​ ​be​ ​at​ ​risk​ ​of​ ​obesity,​ ​doctors​ ​may:
Calculate​ ​the​ ​child’s​ ​​Body​ ​Mass​ ​Index​ ​(BMI)​,​ ​which​ ​is​ ​the​ ​ratio​ ​between weight​ ​(kg)​ ​and​ ​height​ ​(​m​ 2​).​
​The​ ​child’s​ ​BMI​ ​result​ ​is​ ​compared​ ​to​ ​the​ ​BMI chart​ ​according​ ​to​ ​age.​ ​
If​ ​a​ ​child’s​ ​weight​ ​is​ ​over​ ​the​ ​95​th​​ ​percentile​ ​on​ ​the chart,​ ​they​ ​are​ ​considered​ ​obese.
Perform​ ​blood​ ​tests​ ​to​ ​check:
Cholesterol​ ​levels
Blood​ ​glucose​ ​levels​ ​after​ ​fasting
Hormone​ ​levels,​ ​which​ ​may​ ​be​ ​abnormal​ ​in​ ​obese​ ​or​ ​overweight children,​ ​such​ ​as thyroid​ ​and​ ​insulin levels
Please​ ​note​ ​that​ ​some​ ​blood​ ​tests​ ​require​ ​the​ ​patient​ ​to​ ​refrain​ ​from​ ​consuming food​ ​or​ ​water​ ​prior​ ​to​ ​the​ ​test.
Children of Short Stature
Short stature in children may have several causes, such as a growth hormone deficiency, thyroid deficiency, hereditary short stature, or delayed puberty.
When Should Parents Take Their Child to Visit the Doctor?
If parents notice that their child is abnormally small or short, grows slowly, or has an average height increase per year that is lower than the standard average, it is recommended they take their child to see the doctor.
Nurturing a Child to Promote Proper Growth
The doctor will look at the child’s daily routine and eating habits to identify possible causes of stunted growth.
Once the causes are diagnosed, the doctor will offer advice on the following:
Appropriate child nutrition, so that parents can foster and encourage their children to eat healthy food that is essential to growth – and in suitable quantities.
Allocating the appropriate amount of time for a child’s daily routines:
Enough hours of sleep each day to balance hormones and stimulate growth
Enough time for exercise to promote growth and good health
Caring for a child with love and affection is fundamental in promoting good mental health and development.
Treatment of Short Stature Due to Growth Hormone Deficiency
At present, growth hormone therapy includes the following:
Growth hormone injection
There are no oral applications of the growth hormone treatment, as proteins are broken down in the digestive tract making them ineffective.
Congenital Heart Defects
Congenital heart defects (congenital heart disease) , refers to certain abnormalities in the structure of the heart or in the blood vessels around the heart.
The heart of an infant in the womb normally begins to develop in the 5th week of pregnancy, and will be fully formed by around the 12th week.
Genetic material known as genes is responsible for the construction of the infant's heart.
Genes direct the action, order, and structure of the heart, and act as a blueprint for the rest of the body.
A huge number of genes are required for the development of an infant's heart during pregnancy, and each of these genes must fit together correctly.
If there is a defect in any one gene, or in any number of genes, then it may cause structural abnormalities to develop in the heart of an unborn child.
At present, only a few defects in a small number of genes have been scientifically proven to cause congenital heart defects, and for the majority of patients, the doctor will be unable to identify the exact cause of the condition.
The doctor will be aware, however, of certain factors which increase the risk of congenital heart defects in unborn children, by monitoring for such factors during pregnancy as the infant's heart develops.
Factors
Symptoms
Diagnosis
Treatments
Factors Which Increase the Risk of Congenital Heart Defects
Certain Types of Hereditary Conditions
Down syndrome develops when an infant has more than two copies of chromosome 21, which in turn causes delayed motor and cognitive development and lower than average IQ.
Around 40 percent of children who have Down syndrome will also have heart defects.
Turner syndrome develops when an infant girl is born with only one X chromosome, leading to a shortness of height and absence of menstruation (infertility).
Around 30 percent of girls who have Turner syndrome will also develop heart valve defects and constricted blood vessels around the heart.
Risk Factors for Mothers During Pregnancy
Chronic conditions, such as diabetes.
Women with diabetes who manage their blood sugar level poorly during pregnancy will increase the risk of their child developing congenital heart defects.
Common congenital heart defects caused by diabetes during pregnancy include Transposition of the Great Arteries (TGA), and a thickened heart muscle.
Illness during pregnancy, especially during the first trimester, can have an impact on the development of an infant's heart.
If a pregnant mother is sick with German measles, for example, it may cause congenital heart defects in her child as well as defects in other organs such as the brain and eyes.
If a pregnant mother is sick with influenza during pregnancy, this will double the risk of her child developing congenital heart defects.
Therefore, during pregnancy the mother should make sure to look after her own health; and before pregnancy, the mother should get vaccinated for German measles and influenza (if she does not already have immunity).
In addition, if the mother has a high fever during pregnancy, this can also cause congenital heart defects in her child.
The mother should therefore take medication to reduce fever symptoms during pregnancy.
Paracetamol is a safe medication to use for fever during pregnancy.
However, a pregnant mother should not use other medications such as aspirin to reduce fever, as aspirin can cause heart defects in unborn children.
Pregnant mothers should exercise caution, use as little medication as possible, and consult a doctor before taking any kind of medication during pregnancy.
Using medication or other drugs during pregnancy
Use of alcohol or drugs during pregnancy may cause heart and other organ defects in the child in the womb, including brain defects.
The severity of such defects will depend on the amount of drugs or alcohol the mother consumes during pregnancy.
The best way to protect against such defects is for the mother to abstain from drinking alcohol and using narcotic drugs for the entire duration of her pregnancy.
The mother should avoid using other drugs such as anticonvulsants, ibuprofen, and medication to treat spots or acne caused by vitamin A (retinol) deficiency, including both creams and tablets.
The mother should also avoid coming into contact with certain types of chemicals, especially organic solvents used in paints, oil varnish, and nail polish.
Symptoms of Congenital Heart Defects
The symptoms of congenital heart defects will depend on the type and severity of the heart defects present.
In patients who have only mild congenital heart defects, there will usually be few symptoms or no symptoms at all.
For patients who have more severe defects, however, the following symptoms may be observed:
Bluish tint of the skin, lips, fingernails, and inner lining of the mouth (cyanosis)
Rapid heartbeat
Rapid breathing / difficulty breathing
Becoming tired easily; decreased breast milk intake due to becoming tired easily
Not growing or gaining weight properly
Excessive sweating
Fatigue
Diagnosis
By monitoring the child's development using ultrasound scans, some types of congenital heart defects can be diagnosed while the child is still in the womb.
However, some defects may only be identified once the child is born, and often congenital heart defects may only be identified once the child has grown older or into an adult.
If the doctor suspects that a child may have congenital heart defects, the doctor will conduct a physical examination of the child and may need to conduct further tests, such as those described below:
An echocardiogram, which uses ultrasound waves to examine the interior structure of the heart, the heart valves, and the function of the heart.
An electrocardiogram, which measures the electrical activity of the heart.
It measures the amount of electricity and the time it takes for the electricity to pass through the heart so that doctor may be able to find out if parts of the heart are too large or are overworked.
A chest X-ray, which examines the size and the position of the heart, as well as the condition of the blood vessels which supply blood to the lungs.
Cardiac catheterization , which refers to the insertion of a small plastic tube (known as a catheter) into a large blood vessel, usually in the groin or the side of the neck.
The catheter is then guided towards and enters the chambers of the heart, where it can measure the pressure and the level of oxygenated blood, in order to examine the functioning of the heart.
Additionally, the doctor may also inject a special dye (known as contrast medium) into the heart in order to examine the functioning of the heart utilizing X-ray movies.
An MRI scan, which examines the structure of the heart and creates 3-D images of the heart using a magnetic field and pulses of radio wave energy.
A CT scan, which examines the structure of the heart using an X-ray computer.
Treating Congenital Heart Defects
Congenital heart defect patients with only mild heart defects who have no symptoms and follow a normal growth pattern will normally not require treatment.
However, patients who experience severe symptoms, such as a heart failure, shortness of breath, or becoming easily tired, will likely need to take medication to manage their symptoms.
However, if the symptoms do not improve with treatment, then catheter intervention or heart surgery to correct the defects will be required.
Certain types of defects, such as a hole in the heart wall can be treated using a heart catheterization so that an open heart surgery can be avoided.
During the heart catheterization, a specially designed device can be mounted on the tip of a small plastic tube.
This plastic tube can be inserted into a large blood vessel, usually from the groin, and sneaked into the heart to the site of the defect.
Then, the device will be deployed to close off the defect.
Looking After Children with Congenital Heart Defects
Growth and development: Some factors related to congenital heart defects may interfere with a baby’s growth.
These include rapid heartbeat, increased respiratory rate, poor appetite, and decreased food intake due to rapid breathing and fatigue.
The most common reason for poor growth is that the baby does not take in enough calories and nutrients.
But even if your baby seems to drink enough milk, he or she may still gain weight very slowly due to the increased caloric needs.
A 250-450 gram gain in a month may be an acceptable weight gain for a baby with a heart defect.
Most children with congenital heart defects can attend school and fully participate.
However, some children may have delays in development or learning difficulties.
A child’s primary physician can make recommendations for testing and work with parents to find the right solution for the child.
Heart defects could lead to an increased risk of heart tissue infection (endocarditis).
The mouth is a major source of germs that cause infection.
Therefore, good oral hygiene is very important in preventing infection of the heart.
Some children with congenital heart defects may need to take antibiotics before surgery or undergo dental procedures to prevent heart infection.
Some children with congenital heart defects require multiple procedures and surgeries throughout life.
Even after corrective surgery, these children require ongoing care for the rest of their life.
Hand, Foot and Mouth Disease
Hand, foot and mouth disease is a viral infection with symptoms that include mild fever and blisters.
Most commonly found in babies and young children under 5, the infection is often spread in nurseries or kindergartens and is most prevalent during the rainy season and winter months.
While the symptoms will usually clear up in a week or so, the infection can sometimes lead to potentially fatal complications and should therefore be monitored closely.
Symptoms
Causes
Testing and Diagnosis
Treatment Prevention
Symptoms
In the early stages, hand, foot and mouth disease can be mistaken for the flu as the symptoms include fever that lasts for 2-4 days and muscle pain.
As the infection spreads, small red blisters appear, mostly on the inside of the mouth, palms of the hands, and soles of the feet – hence the name ‘hand, foot and mouth disease’.
The blisters contain small bubbles of fluid, which eventually break and turn into ulcers.
In the majority of cases, the symptoms will disappear after 5-7 days.
However, hand, foot and mouth disease can cause severe and potentially fatal complications, including meningitis, encephalitis, paralysis, and myocarditis.
Please note that the potential for these complications is not related to the number of blisters a patient has, so children should be monitored closely during the first 1-2 weeks of the illness, even if the blisters have cleared up.
Take your child to see a doctor immediately if you observe any of these symptoms:
Vague feeling of being unwell, loss of appetite
Apathy, tired and pale appearance
Severe headaches
Nausea, vomiting
Confusion, hallucinations
Neck pain, stiff neck
Startle reflex; shaking of the body, arms or hands
Coughing, rapid breathing, and excessive phlegm, with or without fever
Causes
Hand, foot and mouth disease is caused by a group of over 100 enteroviruses.
The infection can be spread through either direct contact with the virus – such as in droplets discharged from the nose or throat, fluids leaked from skin blisters, and feces – or indirect contact through touching contaminated toys, surfaces, food or drink, or the hands of anyone in contact with an infected person, such as a nanny.
Testing and Diagnosis
In patients with rashes on the palms, it is first important to exclude nummular eczema, chickenpox and other viral rashes.
Generally, the doctor can diagnose hand, foot and mouth disease from observable symptoms.
However, in case of severe complications, the doctor may use additional tests to detect the virus in specimens, such as secretions and/or stool (Results take about 1-7 days, depending on which of the following testing methods are used):
Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR)
Virus Culture
Treatment
Currently, there is no specific treatment for hand, foot and mouth disease.
It will usually clear up by itself in a week without treatment, so disease management typically focuses on relieving the symptoms.
If a patient has trouble eating due to an excessively sore throat, they should be given lots of water, milk and soft food.
In more severe cases where the patient becomes exhausted, they should be admitted to the hospital where they can receive intravenous fluids.
Prevention
As with all diseases, prevention is better than cure.
Since no vaccine currently exists, the most important preventive measure is to maintain good hygiene and make sure your children follow these steps:
Avoid close contact with infected people
Wash their hands before eating; eat only freshly cooked food; and drink only clean water
Avoid sharing eating utensils, such as spoons, plates, bowls, glasses, or milk bottles
As a parent, you should also follow these steps:
Wash your hands thoroughly and immediately after wiping your child’s nose and/or mouth
Wash cloth nappies or clothes contaminated by feces.
After washing, pour contaminated water down the toilet and not down a drain
Keep your child away from school for one week or until the sores clear up if he/she is diagnosed by a doctor with hand, foot and mouth disease
Above all, consult a doctor immediately if your child develops any of the symptoms, and monitor your child carefully if he/she is diagnosed with hand, foot and mouth disease.
Worldwide, breast cancer is the most common type of cancer in women and the second highest in terms of mortality rates.
Men can also develop breast cancer, although incidences are rare.
About 90% of all breast cancer cases start in the tissue of the milk ducts or in the lobules that supply milk to the ducts.
It is possible to diagnose breast cancer at an early stage.
The early detection of cancer greatly increases the chances of successful treatment.
Risk Factors for Breast Cancer
Symptoms of Breast Cancer
Breast Cancer Screening
Diagnosis of breast cancer
Treatment of breast cancer
Risk Factors for Breast Cancer
Age: Women who are over the age of 50 are at greater risk.
Personal History of Breast Cancer: Patients who have previously been diagnosed with breast cancer in one breast are more likely to develop the cancer in the other breast.
Personal History of Ovarian Cancer: Because ovarian cancer is associated with hormone use, a history of ovarian cancer increases the risk of breast cancer.
Family History of Breast Cancer: The risk of developing breast cancer is higher if there is a family history of breast cancer.
BRCA1 or BRCA2 Mutation: Mutations of these genes are associated with an increased risk of developing breast cancer.
Exposure to the Hormone Estrogen: The female sex hormone estrogen induces female characteristics.
Extended exposure to estrogen can increase the risk of breast cancer.
Lifestyle Factors, such as obesity, lack of exercise, drinking alcohol, exposure to high radiation
Symptoms of Breast Cancer
In some cases, women with breast cancer may have no symptoms, while some abnormalities they experience may not be cancerous.
However, it is important to seek medical attention when the following symptoms appear:
Lump or thickening in the breast or armpit
Nipple becoming dimpled, discharge from the nipple, or an ulcer on the nipple
Red rash on the breast, with the appearance of orange peel
Breast pain
Breast Cancer Screening
Breast cancer screening is used for the early detection of breast cancer and increases the chances of successful treatment.
The following methods can be performed to screen for breast cancer:
Self-examination
Mammogram: A mammogram is recommended for women aged 40 and older every 1-2 years.
Ultrasound and MRI: If a mammogram examinations shows an abnormality, ultrasound or MRI may be used to confirm the diagnosis.
Diagnosis of breast cancer
Diagnosis of breast cancer is performed when an abnormal lump is found (from self-examination or x-ray) or a tiny speck of calcium is seen (on an x-ray).
After a suspicious lump is found, the doctor will conduct a diagnosis to determine whether it is cancerous and, if so, whether it has spread to other parts of the body.
The most accurate method of diagnosis is a biopsy.
However, if a biopsy is not possible, the doctor will use an alternative test method.
The method of cancer diagnosis varies depending on several factors, such as age, current medications, type of cancer, severity of symptoms and earlier test results.
Diagnosis of breast cancer can be performed in the following ways:
Diagnostic Radiology
Diagnostic Mammography
Ultrasound
MRI
Biopsy
Surgical Pathology
Blood Test
Additional Tests
Chest X-ray
Bone Scan
CT Scan to generate 3D images of the organs to check for the spread of cancer.
Treatment of breast cancer
Treatment of breast cancer requires a multidisciplinary team of physicians such as surgeons, radiologists and cancer specialists, who together will make the most suitable treatment plan for each individual patient.
The doctors will make their decision based on the following factors:
Size, location and characteristics of the cancer cells
Stage and spread of the disease
Age and health of patient
Hormone receptors
Pre- or post-menopause
Factors indicating disease severity, such as the HER2 gene
Treatment Options for Breast Cancer
Surgery
Radiotherapy
Chemotherapy
Hormonal Therapy
Targeted Therapy
Precocious Puberty in Girls
Parents may feel concerned if they see their child entering puberty before she is expected to.
They may not be sure whether or not this is normal, and whether or not they should consult a doctor.
An assessment by a doctor will help to confirm whether a child may need to receive treatment as, in some cases, if a child is entering puberty too early and does not receive treatment in time, there can be serious consequences to her health.
Luckily, this early sexual development can be prevented through proper treatment.
How is Precocious Puberty Diagnosed?
Physical signs that a young girl is entering into early puberty will be present, for example, the growth of breasts, leucorrhoea (vaginal discharge), an increase in height, genital hair growth, and acne.
If your daughter has any of these symptoms, then this is indicative of precocious puberty.
Causes of Precocious Puberty in Girls
There are two main causes of precocious puberty in girls:
Central precocious puberty – This is when the pituitary gland in the brain releases gonadotropin hormones, which in turn, stimulate estrogen production in the ovaries.
In most cases, it is still unknown what the specific cause of this early hormone release is.
However, there are a minority of cases which appear to be caused by a brain tumor, by another illness within the brain that stimulates hormone release, or as the result of the brain experiencing some type of head trauma.
Peripheral precocious puberty – this is when the ovaries produce estrogen earlier than usual, without any stimulation from the brain.
This is much less common than central precocious puberty, and could be caused by an issue with the ovaries, the adrenal gland, or the thyroid gland, or a type of tumor which stimulates sex hormone growth.
Other than these two main causes, precocious puberty can be hereditary or can be caused by various types of medication, for example, a cream containing estrogen which may cause early breast development in girls.
Potential Risks for Precocious Puberty in Girls
Precocious puberty can cause a range of body issues, from problems with self-care during menstruation to short stature.
Regarding short stature, although the child may be taller than his or her peers during the onset of precocious puberty, their bone structure and development will eventually suffer, causing them to be shorter than average in adult life.
Girls who experience puberty early also have a higher risk of developing breast cancer later in life, as many studies suggest.
Lastly, girls who go through precocious puberty often experience teasing from their peers, due to their difference in appearance.
Diagnosis and Treatment
The doctor will look into the child’s medical history and will carry out a detailed physical examination in order to find the cause of the precocious puberty, so as to evaluate the appropriate course of treatment for that specific cause.
The doctor will likely conduct an x-ray to determine bone age, perform a blood test, and in some instances, may carry out an ultrasound on the ovaries or an MRI scan on the brain to determine whether there is an ovarian tumor or a problem within the brain.
If the doctor is unable to determine the cause, but still detects abnormal hormone production, the doctor will work to limit the on-set of early puberty by giving medications (injections) which can prevent the brain from releasing the hormones that causes children to develop early, and allowing the child to develop and grow at an appropriate rate.
This injected medication must be administered monthly until the child’s bone age corresponds to his or her real age, and the child is at an appropriate age to begin puberty.
When this treatment is discontinued, the production of hormones will resume as normal.
Should Precocious Puberty Be Treated after Menstruation has Occurred
On average, girls gain an additional 4-6 cm in height after beginning menstruation.
For the aforementioned reasons, treatment with medicine at this stage can result in negative results, as the bones have already developed considerably; additionally, if the bones have already fully developed, the treatment will not work.
As such, treatment for precocious puberty in girls who are already experiencing menstruation should be judged on a case-by-case basis at the discretion of a medical professional who will be able to determine which patients are suitable for treatment — and which patients could benefit from treatment.
Side Effects of Medication
Medication is safe and effective when used at the appropriate stage, with very few people experiencing any allergies from the medication.
However, caution should be taken when using the medication at an unsuitable age, as it may affect the strength of the bone structure.
Treatment and length of use should be determined by a trained physician in order to maximize results and minimize side-effects.
Prevention of Precocious Puberty
There is some evidence to suggest that hormones in food may contribute to the occurrence of precocious puberty.
However, there is currently insufficient data to determine whether this is in fact the case; there may be no need to avoid any specific types of meat.
What is important is that parents ensure their child is eating a varied and nutritionally balanced diet from all the 5 food groups, and getting plenty of exercise and rest to ensure good health and strong hormonal development.
Benign Paroxysmal Positional Vertigo (BPPV)
Benign Paroxysmal Positional Vertigo (BPPV) is a degeneration of the inner ear that increasingly affects people as they age.
It is the most common cause of vertigo (spinning sensation).
Causes of BPPV
Symptoms of BPPV
Diagnosis of BPPV
Treatment Options for BPPV
Causes of BPPV
BPPV is caused by calcium carbonate particles (otoconia or balance crystals) becoming dislodged inside the inner ear.
When people with the condition move their head, the particles also move within the balance canal creating a vertigo response.
Symptoms of BPPV
Prominent symptoms of BPPV include a sudden feeling as if everything is spinning around when the head is moved or changes position, such as when lying down, getting up, rolling over, lifting the head up and bending the head down.
The symptoms last only a short time following a head movement and then gradually abate.
When people with the condition move their head again in the same position, the symptoms may recur, but less intensely.
In case of intense vertigo, the symptoms may include nausea and vomiting.
Vertigo may occur several times a day.
The usual course of the illness is a gradual lessening of symptoms over a period of weeks to months, but the symptoms may recur after months or years.
Diagnosis of BPPV
The doctor will make a diagnosis based on an analysis of the following information:
History of symptoms, including the characteristic symptoms of dizziness and the head positions that cause dizziness
Physical examination, including of the ear, nose, throat and neurological system
Dix-Hallpike maneuver, a diagnostic test for BPPV: The patients lie down backwards quickly and tilt their head way back at the end of an examining table.
If any jerking of the eyes is observed in conjunction with the vertigo, then the test is considered positive for BPPV.
Hearing test
Treatment Options for BPPV
The first option is lifestyle changes, such as avoiding positions and activities that cause the symptoms.
Anti-dizziness medication treats the symptoms, but there is currently no medication that can cure BPPV.
However, in most cases, the symptoms disappear gradually after the first month.
Physical therapy is currently an effective treatment option.
Canalith repositioning therapy, including Semont, Epley and Lempert (BBQ) Maneuvers
Vestibular compensation to allow the brain to regain balance control such as Brandt and Daroff exercise
If the medication and physical therapy are not effective, the doctors may recommend surgery.
Cochlear Implant Surgery
Cochlear implant surgery is an effective treatment for severe hearing loss in children and adults.
It is recommended for people whose ability to hear does not benefit from the use of hearing aids.
What is a Cochlear Implant?
Components of a Cochlear Implant
Candidates
Preoperative Assessment
Operation Approaches
Postoperative Complications
Hearing Rehabilitation
What is a Cochlear Implant?
A cochlear implant is an electronic medical device that replaces the function of an inner ear that has become impaired due to damage of the sensory hair cells.
The implant uses a microphone and directly stimulates the cochlea and cochlear nerve, using electricity to provide sound signals to the brain and enable the brain to perceive sound.
Components of a Cochlear Implant
A cochlear implant has 2 components:
Internal component (receiver)
External component (transmitter)
Candidates
Children aged 2 years or older
People with hearing loss in both ears, approximately 90+ decibel hearing loss in children and 80+ decibel hearing loss in adults
People gaining little or no benefit from hearing aids
People with no medical reason to avoid surgery
People with no intellectual disability or mental illness
People who are able to undergo post-cochlear implant aural rehabilitation
Preoperative Assessment
Hearing test.
Physical examination, including a review of the patient’s medical history to identify the cause of the hearing loss, middle ear and external ear examination, blood test, urine test, lung test, and heart test, so as to evaluate the patient’s overall physical health before administering anesthetic for the implant procedure.
Intellectual and mental health assessment, as the efforts involved in learning to speak and listen as part of the development of the patient’s communication skills require high levels of concentration from the patient together with the support of a rehabilitation team and family members.
Therefore, the patient’s IQ and mental health are factors in the success of the cochlear implant.
Operation Approaches
There are 2 cochlear implantation approaches:
Mastoidectomy with Posterior Tympanotomy Approach (MPTA)
Suprameatal Approach (SMP)
Postoperative Complications
Postoperative complications can be divided into 2 groups:
Major Complications
Facial nerve damage
Meningitis
Implant extrusion caused by postoperative infection
Minor Complications
Damage to the skin of the ear canal and the eardrum
Facial spasm while using the device
Hearing Rehabilitation
After three weeks of healing, the cochlear implant is activated.
Post-implantation therapy is required for the patients to adapt to hearing sounds.
The patient will also undergo a hearing test performed by the rehabilitation team as part of the scheduled follow-up appointment process.
Hearing Loss
Any hearing loss or disorder affects our ability to communicate.
It is therefore important to protect your hearing and take good care of your ears.
Ear Structure
The ear consists of 3 parts:
External Ear
Middle Ear
Inner Ear
External Ear
The external ear consists of the auricle and auditory canal.
The external ear collects sound waves and directs them into the middle ear.
The auricle collects sounds from every direction.
The ear canal, or external auditory meatus, carries sound to the eardrum.
Middle Ear
The middle ear lies between the external ear and the inner ear.
It consists of an air-filled cavity and includes the auditory ossicles.
The middle ear consists of:
Ossicles in the form of three small bones:
Malleus
Incus
Stapes
These three bones are connected.
The malleus is directly connected to the eardrum, while the stapes is connected to the inner ear.
As sound waves vibrate the eardrum, it in turn moves the malleus, which transmits the vibrations via the incus to the stapes.
These vibrations are then ultimately transmitted to the membrane-covered opening that leads from the middle ear to the vestibule of the inner ear, called the oval window.
The Eustachian tube is a narrow passage leading from the pharynx to the cavity of the middle ear, permitting the equalization of pressure on each side of the eardrum.
Inner Ear
The inner ear is made up of two parts:
Cochlea for auditory portion
Semicircular canal and otolithic organ for balance and motion
The cochlea consists of hair cells, sensory cells and fluid-filled spaces.
Oscillations in the middle ear set the fluid in the cochlea in motion.
Hair cells in the cochlea perform the transduction of the sound waves into electrical impulses.
Auditory nerve fibers transmit these electrical signals along the auditory nerve and eventually on to the brain stem for translating and processing.
Process of Hearing
Sound travels through the external ear and impacts on the eardrum.
Vibrations of the eardrum cause oscillations in the three bones (malleus, incus and stapes) in the middle ear.
Vibrations set the fluid in the cochlea in motion.
Tiny hair cells in the cochlea perform the transduction of the sound waves into electronic impulses.
Auditory system transmits these electronic impulses to the brain for processing.
Causes of Hearing Loss
Problems of the external ear include impacted earwax and ear infection.
Problems of the middle ear include a perforated eardrum, fluid in the middle ear (Serous otitis media), chronic otitis media, otosclerosis, and poor Eustachian tube functioning.
However, the most common cause of hearing loss is due to problems of the inner ear.
Problems of the inner ear are caused by:
Aging
Labyrinthitis
Noise induced hearing loss
Inner ear syphilis
Viral infection of the inner ear or nerve
Hearing loss that runs in the family
Diseases such as diabetes, kidney disease, high blood cholesterol, etc.
Accidents causing damage to the inner ear
Tumors that develop on the balance and hearing nerves
Process of Diagnosis
Your doctor will obtain detailed information to help identify the possible causes of your hearing loss, including:
Duration of hearing loss
Symptoms that go very quickly, come and go, or become worse
Ear problems such as sound in the ear or dizziness
Other symptoms such as facial numbness and loss of balance
Use of medications and underlying medical conditions
Family history of hearing loss
Exposure to loud noise from shooting, using fire crackers, or working in factories
Your doctor will perform screening tests of the ears, nose, throat, nervous system, and brain function.
Special tests include:
Audiogram to see how well you hear words at various volumes to determine the type of hearing loss and frequency.
Tympanogram to see how well the middle ear is functioning.
Evoke auditory response to test the hearing nerve.
If the cause of hearing loss is not found or a tumor is suspected, a CT/MRI may be required.
Blood test for diabetes, kidney disease, cholesterol, red blood cell density, syphilis, or immunity.
Treatment and Prevention
Treatment and prevention depend on the cause of the hearing loss.
Problems of the external ear and middle ear can be treated with medications or surgery.
Problems of the inner ear are quite complicated.
Treatment depends on the cause of the hearing loss and may be ongoing.
Delay in treatment may affect the results.
You can prevent hearing loss by avoiding risk factors such as exposure to loud noise and certain medications.
Seek immediate medical attention if any abnormalities are present or suspected.
Causes of Cochlear Disorder
Bacterial or viral infection of the middle ear, inner ear or brain from meningitis, brain syphilis, herpes zoster of the ear, mumps, and rubella.
Congenital deafness caused by maternal rubella infections or certain medications during pregnancy.
An untreated hearing problem can have an effect on a child’s ability to learn spoken language.
Adults with hearing loss would have communication problems at work, which may result in them losing their jobs.
Treatment of Patients with Hearing Loss
Otitis or otitis media can be treated with surgical procedures.
Cochlear disorder:
Mild symptoms that have been present for less than 1 month can be treated with oral medications.
In the case of mild hearing loss, a hearing aid inserted into the ear or pushed deeper into the ear canal can help with making sounds stronger.
In the case of severe hearing loss, in which a hearing aid cannot help, a cochlear implant may be an option.
This is a complicated procedure.
Performing a cochlear implant requires the cooperation of a team of surgeons and speech therapists.
Meniere’s Disease
Meniere’s disease, also called endolymphatic hydrops, is a disorder of the inner ear that can affect people of all ages, especially those between 20-50 years old.
Both men and women are equally at risk.
Cause of Meniere’s Disease
Symptoms of Meniere’s Disease
Diagnosis of Meniere’s Disease
Treatment Options for Meniere’s Disease
Self-Care Tips
Cause of Meniere’s Disease
The exact cause of Meniere’s Disease is not known, but the symptoms are linked to an excess fluid in the inner ear.
Symptoms of Meniere’s Disease
Prominent symptoms include dizziness, usually in the form of an intense and spinning sensation.
In some cases, symptoms may also include nausea, vomiting, loss of balance and unsteadiness.
The dizziness may last anywhere from minutes to hours.
While experiencing the symptoms, patients should remain still and avoid any head movement as it may increase the dizziness.
Other symptoms may include the following:
Hearing loss usually occurs in the initial stage, but it is temporary.
The hearing becomes worse during an attack of dizziness, but often improves after that.
However, if left untreated, the hearing will progressively worsen until it results in severe hearing impairment.
Ringing in the ear and pressure in the ear may come and go in the initial stage.
During attacks of dizziness, the symptoms usually get worse, but these become more persistent later in the disease.
Diagnosis of Meniere’s Disease
In diagnosing Meniere’s Disease, the doctor will take into consideration the following:
History of symptoms, including the form of dizziness, severity, duration, frequency and associated hearing problems
Medical history, including previous illnesses or conditions, such as syphilis, mumps, conjunctivitis, immune disorder, allergy, diabetes, high blood pressure, thyroid disease, neurological disorder and ear surgery
Physical examination
Ear, nose, throat and neurological examination
Balance system
Eye movement in different positions
Additional tests:
Hearing test (Audiogram)
Fluid pressure test (Electrocochleography: ECOG)
Neurologic test of auditory function (Evoke Response Audiometry)
Test for balance (Posturography)
Special X-Ray (to detect brain tumor of the nerve that carries balance information to the brain) including Computed Tomography (CT) Scan or Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)
Treatment Options for Meniere’s Disease
Medication
Surgery in severe cases where the symptoms cannot be controlled by medication
Self-Care Tips
Eat hygienic food from the five food groups
Avoid salty food and limit salt intake
Avoid coffee, chocolate and caffeine
Get enough sleep
Exercise regularly
Avoid tiredness and fatigue from excessive or extended working or exercising
Avoid factors that can cause dizziness, such as stress
People who experience dizziness without warning signs should avoid situations that can lead to accidents, such as driving or climbing
Pharyngitis
Sore throat, throat irritation, and difficulty swallowing are common symptoms of pharyngitis.
These symptoms are caused by inflammation and infection of tissue in the throat.
Pharyngitis is caused by viruses or bacteria in the air, or from close contact with an infected person.
Certain lifestyle behaviors may also contribute to throat inflammation, such as consuming too much fried, greasy, or spicy foods, drinking too much tea, coffee, alcohol, or carbonated drinks, eating at odd times, lying down immediately after eating, and smoking.
All of these habits may, in addition to causing inflammation, cause infection to occur more easily due to the decrease in the body's mechanisms for infection prevention.
Symptoms of Pharyngitis
Diagnosis of Pharyngitis
Treatment of Pharyngitis
Prevention of Pharyngitis
Symptoms of Pharyngitis
Symptoms of pharyngitis are dependent upon the type of infection:
Viral pharyngitis – Sore throat, especially when swallowing, slight redness of the throat, phlegm, and clear mucus (not green or yellow).
Most patients first experience the symptoms of a common cold before developing a sore throat.
Bacterial pharyngitis – Redness of the throat, white spots on the tonsils, fever, green or yellow phlegm, difficulty swallowing, voice changes, etc.
This normally occurs in patients who have had a sore throat for several days consecutively.
Diagnosis of Pharyngitis
Doctors will carry out an investigation that involves a thorough review of the patient’s medical history, a physical examination, and any additional testing as deemed necessary.
Medical History Review : Screening for risk factors such as any underlying diseases (e.g., diabetes or immunodeficiency).
Physical Examination : Examinations of the throat, lymph nodes, and possibly, a nasal cavity as well.
Additional tests, especially in severe cases, may include a throat swab culture that will be sent to the laboratory for testing.
Treatment of Pharyngitis
Proper treatment targeted at the root cause of the condition will allow the patient to recover much quicker and avoid unnecessary side effects of treatment.
In the case of a viral infection, symptoms usually improve on their own within 3-4 days.
Treatment in this case is based on the symptoms and does not require the use of antibiotics.
Patients should avoid fried/greasy foods, or strong-tasting foods, such as extremely sour or spicy foods.
Patients should also refrain from drinking cold water and gargle frequently with plain water or warm salt water.
Getting sufficient rest is also recommended.
In the case of a bacterial infection, antibiotics are needed to reduce the duration of the infection, and should be taken in strict accordance with the doctor's instructions.
Prevention of Pharyngitis
In general, people should try to avoid interaction with patients who have pharyngitis, colds or other respiratory infections, as well as eat a healthy diet and follow a proper eating schedule.
Patients with pharyngitis should wear a face mask at all times while out in public in order to prevent the spread of infection to others.
Vertigo
Vertigo is commonly described as a feeling as if the surroundings are spinning, tilting or moving around.
This often causes dizziness, unsteadiness and loss of balance, and can lead to accidents.
Causes of Vertigo
Symptoms of Vertigo
Diagnosis of Vertigo
Treatment Options for Vertigo
Causes of Vertigo
Vertigo can be caused by inner ear problems from the following conditions:
Disorder of the inner ear’s vestibular system (benign paroxysmal positional vertigo or BPPV)
Excess fluid in the inner ear (Meniere’s disease)
Inflammation of the inner ear and/or the nerve connecting the inner ear to the brain (vestibular neuronitis)
Inflammation of the inner ear (labyrinthitis)
Tumor that originates in the canal connecting the brain to the inner ear (acoustic neuroma)
Temporal bone fracture
Symptoms of Vertigo
Prominent symptoms include dizziness and loss of balance, which are the same symptoms as motion sickness, but with vertigo, they can come and go.
Other symptoms are nausea, vomiting, light-headedness, a feeling of pressure in the ear, ringing in the ear, hearing loss and blurred vision during movement.
Diagnosis of Vertigo
The diagnosis of vertigo is based on an appraisal of the following information:
History of symptoms
Signs and symptoms of dizziness (such as nausea or vomiting), duration and time of each occurrence, as well as hearing problems (such as a feeling of pressure in the ear or ringing in the ear).
Medical history, including underlying diseases, ear disorders, injuries, surgery and medication
Physical examination
Ear examination
Nerve and balance system examination
Eye movement from side to side in different positions
Additional tests (to detect abnormal function in the inner ear)
Hearing test (Audiogram)
Balance organ in the inner ear test (Videonystagmography: VNG)
Fluid pressure test (Electrocochleography: ECOG)
Neurologic test of auditory function (Evoke Response Audiometry)
Test for balance (Posturography)
Special X-Ray (to detect brain tumor of the nerve that carries balance information to the brain) including Computed Tomography (CT) scan or Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)
Treatment Options for Vertigo
Vertigo can be caused by several factors.
The preferred treatment option depends on the underlying cause of the condition.
The doctor will choose the most appropriate treatment plan for each patient based on the diagnosis.
Self-Care Tips
Avoid positions and situations that can cause dizziness, such as turning your head quickly, moving around quickly, bending or twisting your neck fully in any direction.
Reduce or avoid cigarettes and coffee.
Avoid factors that can cause dizziness, such as stress, anxiety, allergens and inadequate sleep.
Avoid situations that can lead to accidents, such as driving or climbing.
Barium Enema
What is a Barium Enema?
A Barium Enema is a type of radiology examination to check the abnormalities of the large intestine.
In this procedure, the examination involves inserting the Barium mixture and air into the rectum.
An x-ray is taken afterwards.
What is a Barium Enema?
How is it done?
Why is it done?
Risks & complications
Alternatives
Candidate eligibility
How is it done?
Patients will be asked to change into a hospital gown.
The nurse will insert the enema tube into the rectum.
A barium mixture will then flow into the rectum, filling up the entire large bowel.
In most cases, air will be used to push the barium along and to distend the bowel.
X-ray will be taken and a radiologist will report the results.
Why is it done?
This is an investigation to find out the abnormalities of the large intestine i.e. tumors, cancer or obstruction in the large intestines, etc.
Risks & complications
The risks of Barium Enema are as follows:
After the examination, the patient may be constipated.
Therefore, after the examination, it is strongly recommended that large amounts of water and vegetables should be consumed.
In the case where a patient has a history of constipation, laxatives may be used in order to prevent constipation.
The radiologist will decide accordingly.
In rare cases, some patient may develop allergic reactions to certain brand of Barium sulfate.
Therefore, if there is a history of allergic reactions, the radiologist must be consulted before hand.
As this examination involves using x-ray, it is not recommended for patients who are pregnant.
In rare cases, there is a risk of bowel perforation.
The barium sulfate may leak from large intestine into the abdominal cavity which may cause infection.
In high risk cases, the doctor will consider using another kind of contrast media (water soluble) or another procedures altogether.
Alternatives
The radiologist may discuss alternative approaches to the Barium Enema procedure.
Alternatives include Colonoscopy and Virtual colonoscopy.
Candidate eligibility
The best Barium Enema candidates are in the following cases:
Any  patient  who has no signs or symptoms, as part of a check up procedure; or
For patients who are  found to have abnormal signs and symptoms such as melena stool, chronic diarrhea and constipation, weight loss and abdominal mass.
Bile Duct Cancer
Bile duct cancer develops in the cells that line the bile duct, both inside and outside the liver.
It mostly affects people over the age of 40 and is more common in men than in women.
Bile duct cancer is a major public health problem in regions like the northeast of Thailand where infection with liver flukes is linked to the consumption of raw freshwater fish.
Types of Bile Duct Cancer
Risk Factors
Symptoms
Diagnosis
Treatment of Bile Duct Cancer
Types of Bile Duct Cancer
There are 2 types of bile duct cancer, depending on its location:
Intrahepatic bile duct cancer starts in the cells that line the bile duct in the liver.
The cancer then spreads through the liver by growing along the bile duct in a similar manner to liver cancer.
Because of this, intrahepatic bile duct cancer is sometimes confused with liver cancer.
Extrahepatic bile duct cancer starts in the bile duct outside the liver.
The cancer in the bile duct blocks the flow of bile, causing a yellowing of the skin and eyes.
Risk Factors
The main risk factor for developing bile duct cancer in the northeast of Thailand is eating raw freshwater fish, leading to an infection of liver flukes in the bile duct.
Other risk factors for developing bile duct cancer include:
Chronic inflammation of the bile duct
Bile duct disorders
Congenital genetic disorders, such as choledochal cysts (bile-filled sacs that are connected to the bile duct)
Symptoms
In the early stage, bile duct cancer usually does not have any observable symptoms.
In the advanced stage, however, symptoms include:
Yellowing of the skin and eyes due to a blockage of bile duct flow
Abdominal discomfort, swelling, feeling of fullness
Pain in the upper right abdomen, possible pain in the back and shoulders
Unexplained fever
Itchy body
Light colored stool and dark urine
Tiredness, fatigue
Loss of appetite, unexplained weight loss
Nausea, vomiting
Swollen liver
Diagnosis
The doctor will check the patient’s history and conduct a physical examination supported by the following tests:
Blood test to assess liver function and identify possible tumor markers
Liver and upper abdominal ultrasound
Computerized tomography (CT scan)
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
Treatment of Bile Duct Cancer
The most appropriate treatment option will depend on several factors, including the severity of the condition, the size and appearance of the cancerous cells, the stage and spread of the cancer, and the patients’ overall health.
Treatment options include the following:
Surgery is the main treatment for bile duct cancer.
Surgery to remove the tumor is an effective standard treatment that increases the patient’s survival rate.
If during the surgery to remove the tumor, the surgeons discover that the cancer has spread to such an extent that it cannot be removed, the surgeons will provide palliative therapy by draining bile to relieve the patient’s itchy skin and jaundice (yellowing of the skin and eyes).
ERCP (endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography) is a non-invasive means of diagnosing and treating the cancer which can be used if for any reason the patient cannot undergo surgery to remove the tumor.
Chemotherapy/radiotherapy is used if the cancer cannot be completely removed or after the surgery has been performed so as to increase the chance of a complete cure.
Follow-up Care
Follow-up appointments are important.
During these sessions, the doctor will ask questions about any symptoms and perform an ultrasound or x-ray examination every 3-6 months for at least 2 years after treatment to observe for any recurrence of the cancer.
Capsule Endoscopy
Capsule Endoscopy is used to examine the small intestine section of the digestive system.
The patient swallows a small capsule which contains a miniature camera.
The capsule then travels to parts of the digestive system similar to a miniature shuttlecraft with a camera and flashlight, photographing and transmitting radio signals to a receiver attached to the patient’s abdomen.
The procedure takes about eight hours during which the patient can carry on with normal activities.
Capsule endoscopy can detect disorders in the small intestine which is very long and cannot be reached by a gastroscope.
Capsule endoscopy gives an accurate diagnosis and the patient suffers no pain.
The capsule is then disposed in   normal excretion.
It is recommended for cases where there are unknown causes of anemia, chronic diarrhea, unexplained stomach ache and suspected tumors in the small intestine.
Each and every one of us has felt stressed, disappointed, or sad at some point in our lives.
It can hit us when we experience loss or are faced with a significant obstacle.
These feelings are completely normal when experienced temporarily; however, if that sadness stays with someone for an extended period of time and ends up affecting the way they lead their lives, it could be a signifier that the person is suffering from depression.
Causes of Depression
The 2 main causes of depression:
Genetics or Background – Those who have a family history of depression, have a sensitive disposition, suffer from anxiety, view the world with pessimism or have a chemical imbalance in the brain are all at risk of developing depression.
Environmental Factors that Occur throughout Childhood – This includes how someone has been raised by their parents, as well as how they are influenced by those around them.
Depressions tends to occur when someone experiences an event or events that stimulate their stress levels.
It may also occur without these kinds of negative stimuli but such cases are in the minority.
Risk Factors That are Caused by Depression
Depression can lead to an increased risk of developing various health conditions, including diabetes, high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease, thyroid disease, allergies, immunodeficiencies, dementia, and cancer.
Additionally, patients with depression are more likely to experience accidents and are also at a higher risk of drug use, drug overdose, and suicide.
Forms of Depression
Depression can be categorized into the following 2 main types:
Major Depressive Disorder – This is where patients experience intense, persistent sadness for an extended period of time.
Bipolar Disorder – This is where patients suffer from mood swings more serious than those found in the general population; mood swings are extreme, between highs and lows, disrupting a person’s quality of life.
Symptoms of Depression
If you suspect that you or someone close to you is suffering from depression, watch for the following symptoms.
If you observe at least 5 of these symptoms occurring in conjunction with each other for a period of no less than 14 consecutive days, with the symptoms occurring throughout the day, the person could be suffering from depression:
Feeling down and fed up (for children and teenagers, this may mean that they get easily frustrated or lose their temper frequently)
Feeling bored, losing interest in activities and not gaining any happiness from doing things
Insomnia, restless sleep or sleeping through the day
Getting tired easily and lacking energy
A loss of appetite or overeating
Feeling worthless and losing all self-esteem
Finding it difficult to concentrate on tasks or feeling hesitant about doing things
Speaking slowly, carrying out tasks more slowly than usual or feeling fidgety and being unable to sit still
Harboring feelings of self-harm and self-destruction
Diagnosing Depression
Aside from observing the patient to assess whether he or she has been suffering from 5 or more of the aforementioned symptoms for a period of no less than 14 consecutive days, the doctor must also interview the patient to create a detailed picture of his or her situation – and sometimes relatives may be questioned about the patient as well –  in order to better understand whether or not he or she is indeed suffering from depression, or if the symptoms stem from another mental disorder which displays similar indications of depression.
This includes an assessment of the patient’s medical history to identify if there are any potential causes that could lead to depression.
Treating Depression
The main form of treatment is offering advice and psychotherapy, alongside prescribing antidepressant medication as necessary.
Depression is a curable condition with most patients’ symptoms gradually reducing after treatment, enabling them once again to return to their normal lives.
It is important to note that the faster the condition is identified, the sooner treatments may be offered which can increase the chances of recovery.
However, if left untreated, the condition could potentially become much more difficult to treat.
Side Effects of Anti-Depressant Medication
Antidepressant medication is considered safe, although some may suffer minimal side effects.
That being said, some patients are still reluctant to take the full course of medication prescribed to them as they are afraid of becoming addicted or they are worried the medication will put them into a transitive state.
However, antidepressant medication is non-addictive and it will not cause the taker to enter into any form of transitive state whatsoever.
Prevention of Depression
Depression can be prevented by adhering to the following:
A Healthy Diet – Eating a healthy, balanced diet consisting of the 5 food groups consumed in moderation will help with preventing depression; nutrient deficiencies such as a shortage of omega, vitamins E, C and D, iron, and copper can increase the risk of developing depression.
Exercise – People are advised to exercise at least 4 times per week for 30–40 minutes per day.
Exercise may be light, like a brisk walk.
Rest – Getting a sufficient amount of sleep is essential to wake up feeling refreshed throughout the following day.
Mindfulness – Studies have found that practicing mindfulness techniques can increase mental wellbeing and reduce stress levels.
Optimism – Try to view the world in a positive light, as this will give the much-needed mental strength needed to succeed through periods of great stress and discomfort.
Cirrhosis
Cirrhosis is a condition which results from permanent damage or scarring of the liver.
The scar tissue that forms in the liver prevents the liver from working properly by affecting its ability to produce proteins, store vitamins and minerals and eliminate toxins, as well as blocking the normal flow of blood through the liver.
Causes of Cirrhosis
Symptoms of Cirrhosis
Diagnosis of Cirrhosis
Treatment Options
Causes of Cirrhosis
Cirrhosis is caused by several factors, including:
Chronic alcohol abuse
Hepatitis B, C and D
Autoimmune hepatitis
Iron build up in the body
Wilson’s disease caused by an accumulation of copper in the liver
Obstruction of the bile ducts, causing bile to back up in the liver, scarring the liver and developing into cirrhosis
Fatty liver, causing chronic inflammation of the liver and cirrhosis
Long-term exposure to certain medications
Long-term exposure to toxins
Repeated bouts of heart failure
Symptoms of Cirrhosis
Most people have few or no symptoms from cirrhosis, but complications do occur based on the stage of evolution of the disease.
When symptoms do occur, they may include:
Fatigue, loss of appetite with possible nausea and weight loss
Irregular menstruation in women; enlarged breast tissue and loss of sexual drive in men
Swelling in the legs or abdomen due to low albumin levels and a build-up of fluid in the legs or abdominal cavity
Bruising or bleeding easily due to a decrease in the proteins needed for blood clotting
Jaundice or yellow discoloration in the skin and eyes caused by an accumulation of the pigment melanin
Intense itching of the skin due to bile products being deposited in the skin
Mental disturbances as the liver no longer filters out toxins effectively, causing the toxins to build up in the blood, and causing mental impairment, such as poor concentration or forgetfulness
Sensitivity to medicines as the liver does not filter medications as effectively as normal, sometimes resulting in the build-up of medications in the body and potentially increasing the effects of the medication
Massive bleeding in the stomach or esophagus due to abnormal blood flow, an issue which is life-threatening and requires immediate medical attention
Diagnosis of Cirrhosis
History of symptoms
Blood tests
Other tests
Computed Tomography (CT) scan
Ultrasound
Liver stiffness measurement
Tissue sample (biopsy)
Treatment Options
The goals of treatment are to slow down the progression of scar tissue in the liver and to prevent complications by treating the underlying cause.
The doctor treats the condition; however, the patients should be careful to limit additional damage that can lead to liver failure.
Tips for treating and preventing complications of cirrhosis
Stop drinking alcohol
Avoid medications and substances that increase damage to the liver
Avoid raw food, particularly raw seafood, due to possible bacterial infection
Eat a proper amount of protein and choose lean protein such as fish, or legume protein such as soy, etc.
Avoid adding salt to meals if swelling in the legs and abdomen
Get vaccinated for hepatitis A and B, influenza, and pneumonia, because cirrhosis makes it more difficult for patients to fight off infections
See a doctor for monitoring the condition
Colon cancer
Colon cancer is caused by the uncontrolled growth of cells in the colon.
It may take years to develop, and at the early stage, there may only be an abnormal growth of tissues known as polyps.
However, these polyps can then develop into cancer if left untreated or not removed.
Risk Factors for Colon Cancer
Symptoms of Colon Cancer
Colon Cancer Screening
Diagnosis of Colon Cancer
Treatment of Colon Cancer
Risk Factors for Colon Cancer
Although the exact cause of colon cancer is unknown, there are some risk factors that may increase the chance of developing the disease.
Personal history of polyps: These are usually found on the wall of the large intestine and are not malignant.
However, over time some of these polyps can develop into colon cancer.
Age: While colon cancer can be found in younger people and teens, it is much more common in older people.
90% of cases involve people over the age of 50.
Personal history of IBD (inflammatory bowel disease): Ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease are more commonly known as IBD (inflammatory bowel disease) and increase the risk for developing colon cancer.
Family history of colon cancer: Having a family member under the age of 60 years with colon cancer increases the risk of colon cancer.
Obesity and lack of exercise: There is evidence to suggest that the risk of developing colon cancer may higher in people who are overweight and do not exercise regularly.
Smoking: Studies have reported that the risk of colon cancer is higher among smokers than non-smokers.
Symptoms of Colon Cancer
In some cases, people with colon cancer have no abnormal symptoms, so they do not know that they have cancer. Also, there are other diseases with similar symptoms, which can confuse the issue.
However, it is important to seek medical attention when the following symptoms appear:
Diarrhea, constipation or bloating
Blood, bright red or very dark, in the stool
Narrowing of stools
Abdominal discomfort, burning sensation, bloating and clamping
Unexplained weight loss
Fatigue or weakness
Anemia
Colon Cancer Screening
Colon cancer screening is a method of helping to prevent colon cancer by find the polyps before they turn into cancer.
Men and women should begin screening at age 50.
The screening can be performed in the following ways:
Fecal Occult Blood Test (FOBT) is a test that looks for the presence of polyp or cancer cells.
Annual testing with this method significantly reduces colon cancer mortality, while biennial testing reduces mortality rates from colon cancer by 18%.
Sigmoidoscope is a procedure where a doctor inserts a tube through the anus to the lower part of the colon so as to examine for polyps, abnormalities and cancer.
Using this method, the doctor can cut any abnormal polyps and extract them for further examination.
Colonoscopy enables visual inspection of the entire large bowel and specimen collection for biopsy.
Double Contrast Barium Enema (DCBE) and CT Scan are alternative methods when patients cannot undergo colonoscopy.
Diagnosis of Colon Cancer
Doctors use a range of tests to diagnose cancer and determine if it has spread to other organs.
The method of diagnosis varies depending on several factors, such as age and health of the patient, type of cancer, severity of symptoms and earlier test results.
Diagnosis of colon cancer can be performed in the following ways:
Biopsy, which involves taking small amounts of tissue samples from the patient, is the most accurate method of detecting colon cancer and providing biomolecular predictors of cancer.
Carcinoembryonic Antigen (CEA) is a blood test used to determine the amount of red blood cells or measure the amount of a protein.
CT Scan is used to find the location of the cancer and determine how far it has spread to other parts of the body.
Ultrasound uses high frequency sound waves to determine how much the cancer has spread to the lungs or other organs.
Chest X-ray is used to determine how much the cancer has spread to the lungs.
PET Scan is a test that involves the injection of a radioactive substance into an organ or tissue in order to create images that can be examined.
Treatment of Colon Cancer
Treatment of colon cancer requires a multidisciplinary team of physicians such as surgeons, radiologists and cancer specialists who together will make the most suitable treatment plan for each individual patient.
The doctors will make their decision based on the following factors:
Size, location and characteristics of the cancer cells
Stage of disease and spread of cancer
Patient’s general health
Treatment Options for Colon Cancer
Surgery
Radiotherapy
Chemotherapy
Targeted Therapy
Angiogenesis
Colon Capsule
Capsule colonoscopy is a procedure similar to the capsule endoscopy for the small intestine.
The major difference is that the colon capsule is equipped with two cameras on either side.
This produces images from more angles according to the difference in the size of the colon and the small intestine.
After the procedure, the images and data are analyzed by computer to determine a quick and accurate treatment plan and an accurate cause of the disease.
ERCP (Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangio Pancreatography)
The procedure is used to assist the examination, diagnosis and treatment of bile and pancreatic duct abnormalities such as the obstruction at bile duct, pancreatic duct from gallstone and polyp.
Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangio Panereatography (ERCP) is a technique that combines the usage of X-ray together with the endoscope.
The endoscope is inserted into the mouth and guided through the stomach into the small intestine and into the opening of the bile duct.
A contrast media is injected into the duct for X-ray to examine abnormalities in the bile and pancreatic ducts.
If gallstones are found in the bile duct, the opening may be enlarged to remove the stone by an elective wire.
The cut at the opening will heal within a week.
Fatty Liver Disease
Fatty liver disease is a broad term that describes a wide range of conditions caused by a build-up of fat within the liver cells.
It usually shows up as an abnormality during liver function tests.
Although fatty liver disease does not generally cause any pain, it may indicate other health problems.
Causes of Fatty Liver Disease
Risk Factors for Fatty Liver Disease
Stages of Fatty Liver Disease
Symptoms of Fatty Liver Disease
Diagnosis of Fatty Liver Disease
Prevention and steps to control Fatty Liver Disease
Causes of Fatty Liver Disease
There are 2 main causes of fatty liver disease:
Alcoholic fatty liver disease: Severity varies according to the type, quantity, and length of alcohol consumption.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: It is usually associated with metabolic syndromes, such as obesity, diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and hepatitis C virus.
Mechanism of Fatty Liver Disease
One of the primary functions of the liver is to store energy.
Excessive consumption of certain food types causes fat to build up in the liver.
Excess fat then accumulates in the liver cells.
Obesity, diabetes, high cholesterol, excessive alcohol consumption, rapid weight loss, and malnutrition are contributing factors to fatty liver disease.
However, some patients develop fatty liver disease without any of these conditions.
Risk Factors for Fatty Liver Disease
Obesity: Around 20% of obese people have fatty liver disease.
Excessive weight: People with a body mass index (BMI) of between 25-30 are at risk
Diabetes
Excessive alcohol consumption
Ultra-sweet foods: Consumption of excessively sweet foods and beverages, such as sweet green tea, is a risk factor
Stages of Fatty Liver Disease
There are 4 different stages of fatty liver disease as follows:
Stage 1: The fat builds up in the liver without any inflammation or scarring.
Stage 2: The build-up of fat causes inflammation.
If the inflammation persists and remains untreated for more than 6 months, chronic liver inflammation will develop.
Stage 3: Severe liver inflammation and scarring occur.
The liver cells are slowly destroyed.
Stage 4: Serious damage to the liver cells causes liver function abnormalities, leading to cirrhosis and ultimately liver cancer.
Symptoms of Fatty Liver Disease
Generally, fatty liver disease causes no noticeable signs and symptoms.
Even when symptoms such as fatigue, nausea and pain in the upper right abdomen are observed, they are usually not associated with fatty liver disease.
Most patients only discover that they have the fatty liver disease during an annual health check-up or medical examination for other reasons.
Diagnosis of Fatty Liver Disease
Blood tests
Ultrasound
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
Biopsy (removing a sample of liver tissue for testing)
Prevention and steps to control Fatty Liver Disease
Lose weight if you are overweight or obese.
The ideal rate of weight loss is 0.25-0.5 kg per week until you reach a healthy weight.
Exercise regularly, at least 5 days a week.
If possible, aerobic and anaerobic exercise is recommended, such as fast walking followed by low impact weight lifting.
Choose a healthy diet by eating low-fat, high-fibre, and low-energy food.
Manage diabetes and high cholesterol.
Take medications as directed.
Control your diet and exercise regularly.
Avoid non-prescription medications and food supplements.
Avoid alcohol consumption.
Have a regular health check-up.
Fibroscan
Fibroscan’s ultrasound elastrography uses low frequency elastic waves to deliver highly accurate assessments of liver fibrosis.
Formerly, patients who had to undergo biopsies every two or three years felt threatened by the name of the procedure, but they are now able to return home immediately after the scanning.
The instrument is positioned in order to emit elastic ultrasound waves to the liver.
The fibroscan software then converts the velocity of the echoes into values that the doctor can use to further predict the disease.
The whole procedure takes only about 10 minutes and the results can help doctors to instantly determine a treatment plan.
Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease
Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) is caused when stomach acid flows back into the esophagus, causing heartburn and acid reflux to such an extent that they interfere with the patient’s daily activities.
GERD can occur in both infants and adults.
GERD Causes
GERD Symptoms
Diagnosis
GERD Treatment Options
GERD Causes
Abnormality of the lower esophageal sphincter: The lower esophageal sphincter, which acts as a valve between the esophagus and stomach, becomes weak or stays open longer than normal, causing stomach acid to rise up into the esophagus.
This abnormality is generally caused by the use of alcohol, tobacco, and some asthma medications.
Abnormality of the esophagus: This type of abnormality slows the movement of food into the stomach or causes the stomach contents to flow back and remain in the esophagus longer than normal
Abnormality of the stomach: This causes the stomach to empty more slowly and increases reflux symptoms.
Fatty foods and chocolate reduce the stomach contractions.
Diabetes: While the reasons for this are not known, it was reported in 2008 that GERD is found in approximately 40% of people with diabetes, especially those with complications of diabetes such as neuropathy,
GERD Symptoms
A burning sensation in the chest (heartburn) after eating a large meal, or when bending over, lifting a heavy object, or lying down
A bitter or sour taste in the mouth – it happens when patients belch and causes complications in the esophagus, such as inflammation, bleeding and difficulty swallowing.
Abdominal bloating, feeling of fullness, nausea, and vomiting after eating
Chest pain, the sensation of a lump in the throat, and excessive throat clearing
Asthma, dry cough, hoarseness and sore throat – these symptoms occur due to the backup of stomach acid into the throat and larynx, causing an inflammation of the voice box.
In young children, symptoms include frequent vomiting after drinking milk, anemia, weight loss, growth failure, chronic coughing, asthma at night, and recurrent pneumonia.
Some children may temporarily stop breathing during sleep.
Diagnosis
A doctor will diagnose GERD and recommend a course of treatment when the above symptoms are observed.
If the symptoms do not improve after following the doctor’s advice or receiving basic treatment, the following tests may be used to provide a more detailed diagnosis:
Endoscopy
Barium x-ray
Nuclear medicine study
Esophageal motility test
Ambulatory pH test in the esophagus, which produces quick results
Lifestyle Changes
For most patients, the symptoms are not severe and can be reduced through the following simple lifestyle changes:
Maintain a healthy weight
Avoid tea, coffee, carbonated drinks, fruit juices, sour and spicy food, fatty food, and chocolate
Avoid alcohol and tobacco
Avoid eating a large meal for dinner, do not lie down immediately after a meal, wait at least 4 hours after eating before sleeping
Avoid tight-fitting clothing or belts
Eat smaller meals more often
Sleep with your head raised at least 6 inches above the bed on a firm pillow
Exercise regularly
Avoid stress
GERD Treatment Options
Medications can heal the esophagus and reduce acid production
Surgery may be used in the following cases:
In situations where medications are not helpful and the symptoms persist
In situations where a patient cannot take medications for extended periods or experiences side-effects
Gastrointestinal Motility Planning
Two types of GI tract function evaluation:
Anorectal Manometry is used to assess chronic constipation which suggests malfunction of colon, diaphragm, or sphincter, which can cause difficulty in passing stool.
It may be administered to babies suffering from constipation from birth, if there is suspicion of rectal nerve defect.
Esophageal Manometry is a test to assess the function of esophagus and upper and lower esophagus sphincter.
It is usually given to those who have difficulty swallowing, have chest pain, or other diseases related to malfunction of the esophagus.
It can also test the function of the stomach and in patients suspected of stomach malfunction.
Liver Cancer
Liver cancer is a common form of cancer and a leading cause of death worldwide.
Because there are usually no noticeable symptoms in the early stage of liver cancer, most patients are only diagnosed when the disease has reached its advanced stage.
Types of Liver Cancer
Risk Factors for Liver Cancer
Symptoms of Liver Cancer
Diagnosis for Liver Cancer
Treatments for Liver Cancer
Types of Liver Cancer
Hepatocellular carcinoma is the most common type of liver cancer, both worldwide and in Thailand.
Cholangiocarcinoma (Bile Duct Cancer).
Risk Factors for Liver Cancer
Cirrhosis caused by factors such as alcohol consumption or viral hepatitis
Alcohol consumption
Hepatitis B Virus (HBV) or Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) infection
Exposure to Alfatoxin contamination from peanuts, corn, dried chili peppers, etc.
Inherited and metabolic diseases, such as diabetes, which can cause fatty liver and lead to cirrhosis.
Exposure to certain chemicals or medications, such as long-term male hormones.
Symptoms of Liver Cancer
Liver cancer does not cause any noticeable symptoms in its early stage.
However, the following symptoms will occur in its advanced stage:
Pain, especially in the upper right abdomen.
In some cases, the pain radiates to the back or shoulder.
Swollen abdomen
Unexplained weight loss
Loss of appetite
Fatigue
Unexplained fever
Lump in the liver
Yellowing of the skin and eyes
Diagnosis for Liver Cancer
The doctor will check the patient’s history and conduct a physical examination.
Blood tests are taken to look for liver function abnormalities, viral hepatitis, and alpha-fetoprotein.
Imaging tests such as ultrasound, computerized tomography (CT scan) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are used.
The patient will be given a biopsy (non-invasive removal of a sample of liver tissue for testing)
Treatments for Liver Cancer
The most appropriate treatment option will depend on the severity of the condition, the size and appearance of the cancerous cells, the stage and spread of the cancer, and the patients’ overall health.
Treatment options include the following:
Surgery
Chemotherapy
Radiotherapy
Liver transplant surgery is an option for patients under the age of 70 with a tumor of less than 5 cm.
Prevention is preferable to cure for liver cancer.
However, treatment can be effective if the liver cancer is detected early through screening.
Up to 90% of liver cancers are caused by HBV and HCV infections that lead to cirrhosis and liver cancer.
The liver cancer will then double within 3-6 months.
Patients with HBV and HBC should have a liver ultrasound as well as blood tests to check for liver function abnormalities, viral hepatitis and alpha-fetoprotein every 3 months.
Although the fear of danger or dangerous situations is necessary to our survival, having to deal with extreme or irrational fears day-to-day isn’t something anyone can live with peacefully.
A phobia is a type of anxiety disorder in which a person has an irrational or extreme fear of something of either an object, creature, or situation which does not trigger an extreme reaction in most people.
People with phobias become so full of stress and anxiety when faced with the subject of their phobia that it keeps them from being able to carry out regular tasks.
Causes of Phobias
The medical community is currently still uncertain of the actual causes of phobias.
However, there are many theories which attempt to explain the possible causes.
These include, for example, an internal conflict within one’s conscience, prior negative experiences with the object of their fear, or a chemical imbalance in the brain.
Another cause may be related to a person’s genetic makeup, owing to findings that suggest people who suffer from phobias are likely to have family who also suffer from phobias.
Nonetheless, these causes may only go so far in explaining why some sufferers experience phobias.
There are, as of yet, no sure clinical techniques available that can be used to assess the causes of all types of phobias.
Symptoms of Phobias
Phobia sufferers will experience irregular symptoms when they come into contact with the subject of their phobia.
These include, for example, muscle contractions, headaches, increased heart rate, shortness of breath, hand trembling, mouth trembling, and lightheadedness.
Diagnosis
Generally, doctors can diagnose a phobia by evaluating a patient’s medical history during their consultation.
It is essential that patients describe each and every symptom they experience in addition to answering any questions that the doctor may ask honestly and in detail so that the doctor can make an accurate diagnosis.
Those suffering from one or more phobias will have an extreme and irrational fear of something, and while they may be themselves aware that they should not be so afraid of it, they are still unable to control that fear.
When a phobia sufferer encounters the object of their fear, they may suffer from any of the aforementioned symptoms to the extent that it could leave them feeling tormented and unable to carry out activities in their daily life.
In extreme cases, it could even have such a negative effect on their mental wellbeing that it may cause them to act on negative impulses.
Common Phobias
Phobias are categorized into the following 3 main groups:
Specific Phobias: These are the common forms of phobia, such as a fear of snakes, cockroaches, butterflies, sharp objects, the sight of blood, heights (vertigo), and the dark.
Agoraphobia: These are phobias in which people avoid places or situations which make them feel trapped.
Examples include being afraid of crowded places, being afraid of tight spaces, being afraid of rooms with no windows, being afraid to sit at the back of a minivan, being afraid to enter an MRI scanning machine, or being afraid of airplanes.
Social Phobia: Patients suffering from social phobias are afraid of social situations that cause them to be the center of attention, such as speaking at the front of a room, speaking through a microphone or even getting on a bus via the front doors.
Phobia Treatments
The 2 main techniques that doctors use to treat a phobia are as follows:
Behavioral Therapy: This is the main form of treatment.
It takes the form of a graded exposure to the object of the patient’s phobia.
The process begins by exposing the patient to something that they are slightly afraid of until they have conquered their fear of it, then exposing them to their more extreme fears one by one, gradually increasing in intensity each time until they reach and conquer their main phobia.
This method depends heavily on the patient’s cooperation.
Pharmacotherapy: This treatment is used to treat specific patients who do not want to enter into behavioral therapy.
Medication such as anti-depressants, antipsychotic medication, antispasmodic medication, or beta blockers may be prescribed to these groups of patients to enable them to reduce their levels of fear to the extent that they can enter into behavioral therapy.
Once patients have achieved success through behavioral therapy, doctors will gradually reduce their medication (as medication alone is incapable of completely curing a phobia).
However, if the medication is halted too soon, the phobia could return intensely.
Pancreatitis
Pancreatitis is an inflammation in the pancreas which can be either acute or chronic.
Acute Pancreatitis
Acute pancreatitis is sudden swelling and inflammation of the pancreas, resulting in tissue damage.
Symptoms of Acute Pancreatitis
Severe and sudden abdominal pain that may radiate to the back and which usually lasts for 2-3 days
Nausea and vomiting
Fever
Diagnosis of Acute Pancreatitis
Review of patient history and a physical examination
Laboratory testing: amylase and lipase tests
X-ray computed tomography
Chronic Pancreatitis
Pancreatitis becomes chronic when the inflammation of the pancreas does not heal or improve and gradually worsens, usually due to factors such as alcohol consumption.
Symptoms of Chronic Pancreatitis
Abdominal pain, which may come and go or be continuous
Pale or clay-colored stool, fatty or oily stool
Unexplained weight loss
Diagnosis of Chronic Pancreatitis
Review of patient history and a physical examination
Laboratory testing: amylase and lipase tests
Ultrasound to check for other possible causes of the symptoms, such as gallstones
X-ray computed tomography
Pancreatitis Risk Factors
Gallstones, which can block the pancreatic duct, causing inflammation of the pancreas and eventually leading to pancreatitis
Alcoholism
Treatment Options
Avoid consuming excessive amounts of food or drink in order to reduce the work pressure of the pancreas
Take fluids intravenously to prevent dehydration and maintain an appropriate balance of fluids in the body
Take pain-killing medication
Avoid the consumption of alcohol
Undergo gallbladder surgery.
If the pancreatitis was caused by gallstones, the doctor may recommend surgery to remove the gallbladder.
pH Monitoring: 24 hrs, 48 hrs Capsule Bravo
The 24 hrs pH monitoring is used to assess diseases brought about by irregular gastroesophageal function causing reflexes of the acid gastric juice which results in irritation, ulcer or burning in the chest.
This diagnostic technology is better tolerated and patients can carry out their normal activities during the test.
There are two options of pH monitoring:
Digitrapper catheter-pH monitoring: a measurement tube is inserted through the patient’s nose into the esophagus to collect signals for 24 hours.
The results are then analyzed by a Digitrapper computer.
Capsule Bravo pH monitoring: a capsule is inserted through an endoscope to be attached to the esophageal wall.
The capsule view emits radio signals to the receiver outside the patient’s body.
After the data is collected, the capsule will fall off and be excreted naturally.
Stomach Cancer
Stomach cancer begins when a mutation causes a cancerous cell to grow and divide at a rapid rate.
The cancer can develop in any part of the stomach and spread to other organs, such as the liver, pancreas, intestines, lungs, ovaries, and lymph nodes.
Risk Factors
Symptoms
Diagnosis
Treatments
Risk Factors
The exact causes of stomach cancer are currently not known.
However, factors which increase the risk of stomach cancer include:
Age: Older people have a greater risk of developing stomach cancer.
Gender: Stomach cancer is more than twice as common in men.
Family History: People with a family history of stomach cancer have a greater risk.
Race: It is more common in Asia than in Europe and the United States.
Foods: Pickled, salted and smoked foods may increase the risk of stomach cancer.
Fruits and vegetables help reduce the risk.
Infection with Helicobacter pylori: This bacterium causes inflammation and peptic ulcers, which may increase the risk of stomach cancer.
Underlying Conditions: Previous stomach operations or underlying conditions, such as anemia and chronic stomach inflammation, produce a higher risk of stomach cancer.
Occupation: Exposure to certain chemicals and dust is positively associated with stomach cancer.
Lifestyle: Alcohol, tobacco, and a diet low in fruits and vegetables increase the risk of stomach cancer.
Obesity: There is evidence suggesting men who are overweight may have an increased risk of stomach cancer.
However there is no correlation between obesity and stomach cancer in women.
Symptoms
There are usually no noticeable symptoms during the early stage of stomach cancer.
However, the symptoms in the advanced stage are similar to those caused by other conditions, such as peptic ulcer and viral gastroenteritis.
In the advanced stage, symptoms may include:
Abdominal discomfort, especially in the upper and middle part of the abdomen
Blood in the stool
Vomiting that may contain blood
Unexplained weight loss
Abdominal pain or bloating after eating
Fatigue
In general, if you experience any of the following symptoms, you should consult a doctor immediately:
Indigestion or abdominal discomfort
Abdominal bloating after eating
Slight nausea
Diagnosis
The doctor will check the patient’s history and conduct a physical examination
The patient will be given a mixture of barium and water to drink.
The barium
temporarily coats the gullet, stomach and small intestine.
X-ray images can then show up any tumors or abnormalities.
An upper GI endoscopy is a procedure that allows the doctor to examine the lining of the stomach and remove a sample of abnormal tissue for further examination.
An endoscopic ultrasound can help the doctor to evaluate how much the stomach cancer has grown and whether it has spread to nearby organs.
A lung x-ray is used to detect any abnormality in the lungs and check whether the cancer has spread to this area.
A computerized tomography (CT) scan generates three-dimensional images of internal organs and enables the doctor to observe the location and spread of the disease much more definitively than from a standard x-ray.
Treatments
The treatment of stomach cancer involves the collaboration of a team of medical professionals from various fields, such as surgeons, radiologists, and oncologists, who together will plan the most suitable treatment for each patient.
The choice of treatment depends on:
Size, location and appearance of the cancerous cells
Stage and spread of the cancer
Patient’s overall health
Treatment Options
Surgery
Chemotherapy
Radiotherapy
Virtual Colonoscopy (CT Scan)
Virtual Colonoscopy is the examination of the body and internal organs by high speed computer X-ray through the abdomen.
The software creates a 3D virtual image of the colon with minute details without the need for insertion of the colonoscope through the anus.
The accuracy of virtual colonoscopy highly depends on colon preparation.
Limited consumption of food and use of a laxative to clear up the colon are necessary for clear images for computer analysis.
Besides producing virtual images, the procedure can help the doctor screen for polyps within the colon.
Virtual colonoscopy and provide an instant and accurate diagnosis similar to that produced by traditional colonoscopy.
EmbryoScope – View of an Embryo’s Development
Selecting the most suitable embryo for implantation provides the best chance of achieving a successful pregnancy.
The latest technology developed to optimize successful IVF treatments involves the use of the EmbryoScope.
What is the EmbryoScope?
The EmbryoScope combines an incubator, a microscope, and a time-lapse camera to capture and record images to create a video record of the embryonic development.
The developmental progress can be assessed without affecting the fertilised embryos.
Benefits of using the EmbryoScope
With the information obtained from the images taken by the time-lapse camera, scientists can assess and select the most appropriate or suitable embryo.
By monitoring the information and images provided by the system, scientists can track the sequence at which cell division is taking place with great precision.
Embryos are kept and developed in a more controlled environment with regard to temperature and pH.
Embryonic development is not affected due to reduced handling and manipulation of the embryos.
According to clinical studies, EmbryoScope provides the best chance of achieving a successful pregnancy and IVF treatment.
In-vitro Fertilization (IVF)
In-vitro fertilization (IVF) is a method where sperm and egg are combined in the laboratory, and after fertilization, the embryos are then implanted into the walls of the uterus.
Who is suitable for this procedure?
A woman whose fallopian tubes are obstructed or destroyed.
A man with sperm problems, such as low sperm count and motility.
A couple who have been unable to conceive after three years and where there is no known cause for the infertility.
A couple that has undergone intrauterine insemination (IUI) and were unable to conceive.
IVF Procedure
The doctor will insert an ultrasound probe into your vagina to retrieve a suitable egg.
Local anesthesia is administered to prevent pain.
This procedure takes about 30 minutes and after the retrieval you will be given hormone vaginal suppositories or injections to prepare for the transfer of embryos into your uterus.
The collected eggs and sperm are combined in the laboratory.
Fertilized eggs are then observed closely for the next two days.
The next day the fertilized egg becomes an embryo and is ready to be transferred on the third or fifth day after retrieval.
The embryo transfer does not require that you fast, or the administration of anesthesia.
The procedure takes 30 minutes.
Embryo Transfer
Embryo transfer can be done three or five days after fertilization.
Blastocyst transfer is a new technology where the embryos are cultured in the laboratory until they become blastocysts before they are transferred to the uterus.
This takes five days after fertilization.
This procedure prepares the embryo for implantation and improves the chances of pregnancy.
Day-3 embryo transfer is a method where the embryos are cultured in the laboratory until they divide into six to eight cells, which takes three days after fertilization.
The embryo is then transferred to the uterus.
Duration of IVF Cycle
One IVF cycle takes four to six weeks to complete.
Approximately two weeks after the embryo transfer a blood test will be done to test for pregnancy.
Male Infertility
Infertility is the failure to achieve pregnancy after regular unprotected sexual intercourse without any contraception for at least one year.
It has been found that in 40% of infertile couples, the problem lies with the male.
The Causes of Male Infertility
Male fertility is dependent on the normal function of the hypothalamus and pituitary gland, which control the production of male hormones as well as the testes.
Fertility problems in men are caused by the following:
Problems in the testes, such as infection and varicocele (30-40%).
Blockages in sperm-carrying tubes (10-20%).
Conditions of the hypothalamus or pituitary gland (1-2%).
Unknown causes (40-50%).
Evaluation of Male Infertility
When a couple suffering from infertility first seeks medical treatment, the doctor will first investigate any possible fertility problems of the male, as testing is less invasive than it is for a woman.
If testing reveals no problems with the man, the woman will then be tested.
Evaluation of male infertility includes:
Personal history and physical examination.
Blood tests to check for hormonal problems and other conditions.
Semen analysis to examine the amount, shape and motility of sperm.
This is the main procedure used to investigate male infertility.
Other tests, such as transrectal ultrasound to check for blockages in the testis, the sperm-carrying tubes, and the testicular blood vessels.
Assisted Reproductive Techniques
If it is discovered that you have a sperm disorder, such as low sperm count, abnormal sperm, or sperm with poor motility, the following assisted reproductive techniques may help you and your partner conceive:
In-vitro Fertilization (IVF)
In IVF the sperm and egg are combined in the laboratory, and after fertilization the embryos are then implanted in the walls of the uterus.
Intracystoplasmic Sperm Injection (ICSI)
ICSI is an aspect of IVF where the sperm is injected directly into the egg.
When the egg is fertilized the embryos will then be implanted in the uterus.
This method is suitable for a man who has a low sperm count and/or abnormal sperm motility.
Intrauterine Insemination (IUI)
In IUI the sperm is concentrated for maximum potency and then directly implanted into the uterus.
Percutaneous Epididymal Sperm Aspiration (PESA), Testicular Sperm Extraction (TESE) and Microsurgical Epididymal Sperm Aspiration (MESA)
PESA, TESE, and MESA are procedures to retrieve sperm from the testes or epididymis if sperm is not found in the ejaculate.
These methods are used in conjunction with an ICSI procedure.
Hair loss
What is hair loss?
Scarring - (Loss of hair follicles).
Cutaneous lupus erythematosus and fungal kerions are the most prevalent forms of scarring alopecia, which causes permanent hair loss.
Nonscarring - (The hair follicles are still present).
Alopeaia areata is this type, which is an autoimmune process but the cause is unknown.
Since the hair follicles still exist, it is often reversible.
It However, it can develop into the scarring type.
What are the causes of hair loss?
Stress, illness or surgery, prolonged fever, childbirth, emotional (psychological stress), crash dieting, etc.
Hormonal problems, hyper or hypo-thyroid hormone
Some medications
Allergic reaction to medications
Radiation Therapy
Infections: Fungal infections, Syphilis, HIV, Herpes simplex
Autoimmune disorders
Systemic and discoid lupus erythematosus
Anemia
Hair pulled too tightly by hair rollers, pigtails, and cornrows
Twisting and pulling hair out due to psychiatric problems
Genes
Risk Factor
Family history of baldness or hair loss, Advancing age (for male-pattern baldness only), pregnancy, stress, poor nutrition.
Symptoms
Alopecia symptoms depend on the type of hair loss.
Some of more the common symptoms include: Hair recedes, hair falls out at the top of the head, hair thins, and gradual shedding and hair come out with gentle pulling.
The common symptoms of Alopecia Areata are rapid hair loss, round or oval patches of hair loss and sometimes brittle and discolored fingernails and toenails with ridges.
Diagnosis
Physical examination and some tests may be needed, such as, tugging on the hair, biopsy of the scalp, checking hair loss on other parts of the body, and blood test to identify underlying conditions that may cause the hair loss.
Treatment
Treatments include:
Medication, anti-fungal shampoos, steroid injection.
Lifestyle changes: Be gentle with your hair, learn and practice to control your stress.
Surgery:
Hair transplant: Taking hair from the back and side of the head and transplanting in bald areas.
Scalp reduction with flaps: Cutting the scalp and pulling the areas with hair closer together.
Hypogonadism (Low Testosterone)
What is the role of testosterone in men's health?
Testosterone is the most important sex hormone that men have.
Its function is to promote typical male characteristics and help maintain men's health together with sex drive, sperm production, pubic and body hair, muscle, and bone.
The brain controls the production of testosterone by the testes.
Low testosterone (also called hypogonadism) can cause:
A drop in sex drive
Poor erections
Low sperm count
Enlarged breasts
Over time, low testosterone may cause a man to lose body hair, muscle bulk and strength, accumulate body fat, and have weaker bones (Osteoporosis), mood changes, less energy, and smaller testes.
What causes low testosterone?
Low testosterone can be caused by injury to the testes (e.g., trauma, castration,radiation or chemotherapy), testicular infection, hormonal disorders (e.g., pituitary tumors or diseases, high levels of prolactin), or other systemic diseases (e.g., HIV/AIDS, chronic liver and kidney disease too much body fat, and type 2 diabetes and associated obesity).
Some medications and several genetic conditions (e.g., Klinefelter syndrome, hemochromatosis, Kallmann syndrome, Prader-Willi syndrome, and mytonic dystrophy) can also cause low testosterone.
Many older men have low testosterone levels and, in many cases, the cause is not known.
How is low testosterone diagnosed?
During a physical exam, your doctor will examine body hair,breast size, consistency and size of the testes, scrotum, penis size, etc.
Your doctor will also use blood tests to evaluate if the total testosterone level is within the normal range.
To diagnose low testosterone you may need more than one early-morning (7-10 AM) blood test and, sometimes, other tests of the pituitary gland's hormones.
How is low testosterone treated?
Testosterone replacement therapy can improve men's health in general such as increased sense of mood and well being, increased energy and vitality, and also heightening sexual interest, erectile function, body hair growth, bone density, and muscle mass.
There are several methods of testosterone replacement:
Injections
Patches
Gel
Oral forms
The best method will depend on the cause of the problem, the patient's preference and tolerance, and cost.
For long term use of Testosterone replacement, patients will be continuously monitored to achieve the best possible result and prevent risk according to international standard.
Infertility
Infertility is defined as a couple's inability to become pregnant after one year of regular, unprotected intercourse.
Male infertility means the male is unable to impregnate the female because of male factors.
Learn what the causes of male infertility are and discover if you can resolve your male infertility issues with your doctor.
What are the causes?
There are many male factors that can make a couple unable to become pregnant.
These may include conditions such as the following:
Hypogonadism, a condition in which the testes fail to develop normally
Extreme obesity hormone imbalances, such as hypothyroidism
Varicocele, a group of enlarged veins inside the scrotum
Diabetic neuropathy, in which nerve damage causes problems with erection or ejaculation
Inherited conditions that impair the ability to produce sperm, such as Down syndrome
Testicular torsion, a condition in which the blood supply to the testicle is cut off
Undescended testicles, a condition in which the testes fail to drop into the scrotum
Chronic diseases also can be a factor in fertility, for example:
Autoimmune disorders, which can cause the body to produce antibodies that attack sperm
Liver disease
Sickle cell anemia
Kidney disease
Genital infections such as gonorrhea and genital herpes
Infections of the reproductive organs, such as prostatitis and epididymitis
Infectious diseases, including mumps
Additional factors in infertility include the following:
Certain medications, such as cimetidine and phenytoin
Certain supplements, such as anabolic steroids
Chemotherapy used for cancer
Diet low in folic acid or low in lycopene, which is found in plants such as tomatoes
Excessive exercise, which lowers testosterone levels and decreases sperm production
Exposure to diethylstilbestrol, also known as DES, as an infant in utero
Exposure to toxins such as lead, mercury, or pesticides
Frequent hot baths or use of hot tubs
Injury to the testicles
Low sperm count, poor sperm quality, and poor movement of sperm
Radiation therapy
Recreational drugs, such as alcohol and marijuana
Sexual problems, such as erectile dysfunction and premature ejaculation
Side effects of treatments for testicular cancer or prostate cancer
Surgery of the reproductive system, such as transurethral resection of the prostate
Vasectomy, a surgical procedure to tie off the sperm-carrying tubes
Wearing tight-fitting pants and underwear
Signs & symptoms
Male infertility occurs when the man's partner does not conceive after one year of attempting to become pregnant.
Other signs and symptoms depend on the underlying cause of the man's infertility.
How is the condition diagnosed?
The diagnosis of infertility begins with a medical history and physical exam.
The provider may order blood tests to look for hormone imbalances or disease.
A semen sample may be needed.
The volume of the semen is measured, as well as the number of sperm in the sample.
How well the sperm move is also assessed.
What are the treatments for the condition?
Treatment of male infertility focuses on the underlying cause.
Without treatment, 15% to 20% of infertile couples will eventually get pregnant.
Treatment for a male with infertility may include:
Avoiding extended periods of time in hot baths and hot tubs
Eating a healthy diet and exercising in moderation
Having a varicocele surgically repaired
Having vasectomy reversal surgery, which reconnects the tubes carrying sperm from the testes
Learning about the best times to conceive
Making lifestyle changes, such as smoking cessation and limiting intake of alcohol
Taking hormone therapy
Treating erectile dysfunction with counseling, medication, or surgery
Wearing loose-fitting underwear, such as boxer shorts
If these treatments don't work, other means of fertilization may be considered, such as:
Artificial insemination: This involves placing sperm directly in the cervix or uterus.
Invitro fertilization: This involves fertilizing the egg outside the womb and then returning it to the uterus.
Intracytoplasmic sperm injection: This involves placing individual sperm cells directly inside the woman's eggs during the process of invitro fertilization.
What can be done to prevent the condition?
Some cases of male infertility may be avoided by doing the following:
Avoid drugs and medications known to cause fertility problems.
Avoid excessive exercise.
Avoid exposure to environmental hazards such as pesticides.
Avoid frequent hot baths or use of hot tubs.
Avoid tight underwear or pants.
Eat a diet with adequate folic acid.
Get early treatment for sexually transmitted diseases.
Have regular physical examinations to detect early signs of infections or abnormalities.
Keep diseases, such as diabetes and hypothyroidism, under control.
Practice safer sex to avoid sexually transmitted diseases.
Take a lycopene supplement.
Wear protection over the scrotum during athletic activities.
Although more research needs to be done, parents may want to consider alternatives to disposable diapers for male infants.
Stress is the mental or emotional state which causes physical or mental tension.
It’s the feeling of strain or pressure.
Stress in small amounts can be beneficial — even healthy — and plays a role in motivation.
However, when faced with excessive amounts of stress, it can lead to both physical and mental harm.
Causes of Stress
Stress can be caused by 2 main factors, which are:
External Factors – Work, family issues, divorce, conflict in relationships and moving house.
Internal Factors – A tendency to worry and be anxious over small issues, or a chemical imbalance in the brain which can cause stress and depression.
Contributing Factors to Stress
Stress can arise from hereditary conditions which cause the central nervous system to be strained easily.
It can also be a type of learned behavior, for example, those with parents who are stressed easily.
Stress can also result from being in nerve-racking situations such as having a stressful career or experiencing familial problems.
Age can have a big impact on the likeliness of stress, for example, the transition from childhood to adulthood, when hormonal changes and a new role in society.
Reaching the age of menopause can also cause stress, while men are also affected by hormone changes in older age, although less so than women.
Reaching this age can cause an increase in worry and a low mood, as well as making both genders more susceptible to being easily offended.
Types of Stress
There are 3 main types of stress:
Acute Stress – This is stress caused by a specific situation, for example, work deadlines, overwhelming challenges, or any event which causes a strong emotional response.
Once this stress disperses, the body will return back to normal.
Episodic Acute Stress – This is caused by a sequence of traumatic events, such as experiencing health problems, subsequently becoming unemployed, and then getting divorced.
Others are predisposed to respond to situations with stress, worry, and anger, which can cause episodic acute stress due to the regularity of this reaction.
Chronic Stress – This is a slow accumulation of consistent stress and worry, ultimately resulting in chronic strain.
This type of stress can have a considerable effect on your long-term physical and emotional health.
Symptoms of Stress
Serious stress disorders can cause the following symptoms:
Headache and general aches and pains
Irritable bowel syndrome, causing issues with digestion and diarrhea
Shaking and sweating
Exhaustion and apathy
High blood pressure
Weak immune system
Heart conditions
Anger, being easily irritated, or easily upset.
An inability to concentrate
Feeling depressed and disorientated
Feeling anxious
When You Should Consult Your Doctor
If you feel that you are experiencing more stress and anxiety than is proportionate to the cause, if you feel you have no control over these feelings and emotions, or if a buildup of continual stress has left you feeling depressed with negative side effects that are affecting your daily life, such as insomnia or any other physical symptom relating to strain, consult your doctor.
Diagnosis and Treatment
In making a diagnosis, the doctor will first discuss the situation with the patient, asking questions designed to further understand the behavioral and situational nature of the stress in order to assist in helping the patient change his or her thought process and reactions to stress to shape a positive change in the patient’s daily life
Prevention of Stress
There are many ways to reduce and manage stress and tension.
Apart from the traditional healthy living approaches to stress management, such as eating a balanced and healthy diet, exercising regularly, and getting sufficient sleep, the following methods can also be used for dealing with stress:
Engage in activities which you find fun, enjoyable, and relaxing
Talk about how you are feeling, whether it be with your close friends or your partner
Practice mindfulness, such as breathing exercises, meditation, and the positive visualization of overcoming your stress and anxiety
Change your attitude, for example, try to view challenging situations as an opportunity to learn and develop, or use spiritual principles to help your general consciousness and maintain peace of mind
Prostate Cancer
The prostate is a gland located below a male’s bladder.
Its main function is to secrete prostatic fluid, which makes up a large portion of seminal fluid.
The prostate is also responsible for propelling sperm during sexual intercourse.
Unfortunately, the prostate may become cancerous in certain males.
Prostate cancer is the leading cancer in men worldwide.
Prostate Cancer Risk Factors
Symptoms of Prostate Cancer
Prostate Cancer Screening and Diagnosis
The Stages of Prostate Cancer
Treatment Options for Prostate Cancer
Prostate Cancer Risk Factors
Doctors find that cases of prostate cancer are increasing around the world.
Some of the factors which might increase a man’s risk of prostate cancer include:
Age – The older a man is, the greater the chance of prostate cancer.
Most cases of prostate cancer are found in men 50 years and older.
Family History – Having a father or brother who has had prostate cancer.
Region – Prostate cancer is more common in North America and Europe (especially northwestern Europe); it is less common in Asia.
Diet – Diets that are high in fat and long-term or regular red meat consumption.
Symptoms of Prostate Cancer
Prostate cancer in its early stages is usually not accompanied by any noticeable symptoms.
As the cancer grows, however, it begins to put more pressure on the urethra, and will then begin to cause a variety of symptoms especially affecting the lower urinary tract.
For example, more frequent urination (especially at night); pain or burning sensation while urinating; urinary retention (an inability to fully empty the bladder); difficulty in starting, maintaining, or stopping the urine stream; straining to urinate, etc.
If left untreated, patients will have greater difficulty and more frequent urination, to the point that they may urinate blood.
Prostate Cancer Screening and Diagnosis
If you have the symptoms of prostate cancer, the doctor will perform a physical examination and additional tests to confirm the diagnosis as follows:
Digital Rectal Examination (DRE) – As part of a physical examination, your doctor inserts a gloved and lubricated finger into your rectum and feels toward the front of your body in order to check the size, shape and flexibility of the prostate.
Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) Blood Test – PSA will be at an elevated level in patients with prostate cancer.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
Transrectal Ultrasound ( TRUS) – This test uses sound waves, in which the doctor will insert an ultrasound probe (a machine that uses sound waves to build a picture of the inside of your body) into your rectum toward the position of the prostate.
A small needle is then used to take 12 core samples from 12 biopsy sites.
These samples will then be sent to a lab for a pathology examination.
MRI/Ultrasound Fusion Biopsy – This is the use of three-dimensional imaging technology coupled with ultrasound guidance in real-time, which allows doctors to see both the details and position of the cancerous tumor in the prostate much more clearly.
This means they are then able to guide the biopsy needles precisely to the lesion they want to sample as opposed to random biopsy sampling.
The Stages of Prostate Cancer
The stages of the cancer are determined by the location of the cancer cells, what parts of the body the cancer has spread to, and abnormal functioning of bodily organs.
Knowledge of the stage of the cancer is important to treatment, as it helps the doctor with determining the most appropriate treatment.
Prostate cancer is divided into 4 stages:
Stage 1 – This is the beginning stage.
Cancer is found in the prostate only and cancer cells have not yet spread.
Stage 2 – The tumor has grown slightly larger, and is found in more than one-half of one lobe of the prostate or in both lobes, but has not spread beyond the prostate.
Stage 3 – Cancer cells have spread and broken through the outer layer of the prostate gland and may have spread into the seminal vesicles (tubes that carry semen).
Stage 4 – Cancer cells have spread (metastasized) outside the prostate to other tissues, commonly including the bones and lymph nodes.
Treatment Options for Prostate Cancer
Treatment options for prostate cancer are determined by location, size, stage of cancer, physical and mental condition of the patient, as well as the quality of life of the patient after treatment.
Currently, treatment options include the following:
Surgery , which is divided into 2 main methods:
1. Laparoscopic Radical Prostatectomy – This type of surgery has been developed from traditional open abdominal surgery.
With this method, the doctor inserts a tiny camera called a laparoscope and other special instruments through 5 tiny incisions in the abdomen below the navel, and performs the surgery via the images viewed on a monitor.
The results of this type of surgery include less pain for patients, faster recovery, fewer side effects, and better treatment results than those associated with open abdominal surgery.
2. Robotic–assisted da Vinci Surgery or Da Vinci Prostatectomy) – This procedure involves the use of robotic arms which are controlled by the surgeon.
It not only has the advantages of less pain and faster recovery time as is the case with laparoscopic surgery, but it also increases the chances of patients being able to control urinary incontinence post-surgery and minimizes the risks of erectile dysfunction.
Radiation Therapy – This includes both brachytherapy (internal radiation) and external beam radiation.
The type of radiation therapy used depends on whether the level of the prostate cancer is low-risk, intermediate-risk, or high-risk.
Chemotherapy – Improved treatment results are currently being seen with chemotherapy.
At the same time, doctors also have methods for relieving and minimizing adverse reactions that are side effects of the drugs.
Hormone Therapy – This is often used as an additional treatment after surgery or in cases where the cancer is in a metastatic stage.
With this treatment, the physician will try to reduce or stop the body from producing the male hormone testosterone through medication – if medication is not successful, surgical options would need to be considered.
Chronic Kidney Disease
What is chronic kidney disease (CKD)?
Chronic kidney disease is a condition of kidneys being damaged from many potential causes, resulting in gradual and permanent loss of kidney function over time.
The main causes of CKD are diabetes, hypertension (high blood pressure) and obesity.
Other conditions that can cause chronic kidney disease include glomerulonephritis and genetic disease, e.g. polycystic kidney disease.
The risk factors of chronic kidney disease
Chronic Kidney Disease Symptoms
Stages of Chronic Kidney Disease
The importance of early detection
If unaware of the disease, kidney disease can gradually worsen over time, as the symptoms are often not noticed until the damage is severe.
Early detection and diagnosis play critical roles in delaying further kidney damage that could ultimately cause kidney failure.
At late stage, the treatment options are narrowed down to dialysis and kidney transplant.
The risk factors of chronic kidney disease
The risk factors include:
Diabetes
Hypertension or high blood pressure
Family history of CKD
Aging
Obesity
Smoking
What can you do to screen for chronic kidney disease?
Initial screening tests are quite simple:
Blood pressure measurement
Urine test for protein (proteinuria): Protein is very important to body.
Normally, kidneys filter wastes out of the blood and retain protein which can be used by the body.
When the kidneys’ function is abnormal, blood protein (called albumin) may leak into the urine.
The test of urine for protein can be done by several methods.
The increased amount of protein the urine is a sign of deteriorating kidney function and chronic kidney disease.
Blood test for creatinine: Creatinine is a waste product in blood created by the breakdown of muscle cells.
With the creatinine result from the blood test, doctors can calculate the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) which helps determine the quality of kidney function.
The lower GFR signifies that the kidneys are not working well in filtrating wastes out of the body.
Chronic Kidney Disease Symptoms
The symptoms of CKD can vary greatly since kidneys are associated with many functions of our body.
Some people experience mild and unspecific symptoms while many experience no symptom at all.
This is why CKD often is left undiagnosed until the late stage.
Watch out for the following signs and symptoms:
Fatigue and weakness
Diminished mental ability
Loss of appetite
Sleeplessness
Itchiness and skin irritation
Muscle cramps, especially at night
Swelling of legs and feet
Puffiness around the eyes (especially in the morning)
Frequent urination (especially at night)
What can you expect if you have high risk of chronic kidney disease?
You will need to undergo further tests so that doctors can plan the best treatment.
The specific tests you can expect include:
A glomerular filtration rate calculation is the best way to measure the kidney function based on creatinine values, age, race and sex.
The GFR helps doctors determine the stage of kidney disease and plan the appropriate treatment accordingly.
Ultrasound or CT scanner is used to diagnose certain kidney problems and urinary tracts.
The image results allow doctors to examine the kidney’s size and look for possible kidney stones or tumors as well as check for kidneys’ structure and urinary tracts.
A kidney biopsy is required in some cases in which the cause of kidney disease is unclear and doctors need specific information.
Kidney tissue samples will be examined under a microscope to determine the seriousness of kidneys damage and plan the best possible treatment.
Chronic Kidney Disease Program
Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) is a progressive loss of renal function over a period of months or years.
Causes of chronic kidney disease are diabetes mellitus, hypertension, or glomerulonephritis, urinary tract infection, exposure to some toxic substances, herbal or some medication.
If it is not properly treated, kidney function may reduce overtime leading to end-stage of renal failure which needs hemodialysis or kidney transplantation.
The diminished kidney function brings various complications such as water and electrolyte imbalance, anemia and the accumulation of waste products in the body.
These symptoms can be controlled and prevented if the patient has been regularly monitored by a specialist.
Bumrungrad International hospital established the Chronic Kidney Disease Program with the main purpose of preventing or delaying the progression of chronic kidney disease and the development of complications.
You will be taken care by our professional team that includes specialists in chronic kidney disease, nurses, pharmacists and nutritionists.
The Benefits of Chronic Kidney Disease Program
Regular assessment of kidney function to prevent any complications from occurring
Advice about a diet-controlled program from nutritionists specializing in kidney disease
Instruction for self-care and handbook
Drug instruction with advice on other medicines or suppliments that can damage the kidneys
Overall health consultation
Continuous care and assessment from nephrologists and our professional team
Criteria for participation in Chronic Kidney Disease Program
Have chronic kidney disease with slightly diminished kidney function (less than 60 ml/min/1.73m2) or have had albumen detected in the urine (more than 500 mg/day).
Be willing and able to commit to regular visits for the Chronic Kidney Disease Program (as scheduled)
Kidney Failure
Kidney failure, also known as end-stage kidney disease, is the condition in which a person’s kidneys have stopped working.
It’s divided into 2 types: acute kidney failure and chronic kidney failure.
Types and Causes of Kidney Failure
1. Acute Kidney Failure – This refers to a rapid decrease in the functioning of the kidneys caused by various factors, including, septicemia (blood infection), urinary tract diseases, ingestion of harmful substances, as a side effect from medication, or overdosing on medication.
Acute kidney failure may also occur as a side effect of another condition.
In these cases, if the condition is immediately treated, the chances of the kidneys being restored to its former state are high.
2. Chronic Kidney Failure – This refers to the gradual deterioration of the kidneys over time.
The main causes of this type of kidney failure are diabetes mellitus, high blood pressure, obesity, and other conditions, which may take as long as one year to present any symptoms such as inflammation of the kidneys or polycystic kidney disease.
Most patients are only diagnosed with this condition once their kidney function has been significantly reduced, leading to kidney failure.
In these cases, treatments are unable to restore the kidneys to their former state.
Symptoms of Kidney Failure
With kidney failure, waste and fluids will remain stored in the body.
This could lead to symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, fatigue, decreased appetite, insomnia, dry and itchy skin, muscle cramps, urine reduction, puffy eyelids, fluid in the lungs, difficulty breathing, being unable to lie down, high blood pressure, paleness, and anemia.
Symptoms may be so severe as to cause loss of consciousness or even death.
Diagnosing Kidney Failure
Accurately diagnosing kidney failure can be carried out in the following ways:
Urine assessments to identify protein and red blood cell levels – Normally, proteins and red blood cells are not passed through the urine, but in cases where the kidneys are not functioning normally, proteins and red blood cells may be found in the urine of the patient.
Blood tests to assess creatinine levels – Creatinine levels signify the amount of waste products present in the bloodstream which can be used in assessing the efficiency of kidney function, or the kidney’s GFR (glomerular filtration rate).
The lower the GFR rating, the less effectively the kidneys are functioning.
Other types of evaluations – These include, for example, carrying out an ultrasound assessment of the kidneys and the urinary tract, or in some cases, taking a kidney sample for analysis.
Progression of Kidney Failure
The stages of chronic kidney disease are categorized as follows:
Stage 1: A normal GFR rating of 90 or above; however, if proteins are showing up during urine analysis, it means the kidneys are beginning to deteriorate.
Stage 2: GFR rating of 60-89.
The slightly reduced GFR rating shows that the patient is at the stage whereby the kidneys have already deteriorated.
Stage 3: GFR rating of 30-59.
Stage 4: GFR rating of 15-29.
Stage 5: GFR rating of lower than 15.
This finding signifies kidney failure in both chronic and acute types of kidney disease.
Treating Kidney Failure
Treating kidney failure can be done through the following methods:
1. Hemodialysis – A treatment which removes the waste and fluids from the blood by taking the patient’s blood, filtering out the waste, then balancing the blood’s mineral levels and acidity through an artificial kidney so that better quality blood can be returned to the patient’s bloodstream.
This process takes around 3-4 hours per session and should be carried out at least 2–3 times per week.
Patients are required to undertake blood vessel surgery to gain an entrance into the bloodstream before going through the dialysis treatment.
2. Peritoneal Dialysis – A procedure whereby the kidney is cleansed and filtered using a special fluid that enters the body via a catheter inserted into the patient’s abdomen.
This technique needs to be carried out daily so patients will usually learn how to perform the procedure themselves at home.
However, it’s important to keep in mind that carrying out peritoneal dialysis at home has its risks in regards to cleanliness and infection.
Patients need to make sure they learn the methods in performing the procedure at home safely and correctly.
3. Kidney Transplantation – The surgical removal of a donor’s healthy kidney in order to be transplanted into the body of the patient suffering from kidney failure.
The new kidney may have been removed from a patient who has suffered irreparable brain damage, or from a healthy person who has a kidney that is compatible with the receiver’s body.
This technique is only available to those suffering from the final stages of kidney failure, as they have no other choice available.
For those patients, choosing not to undergo a kidney transplant will most likely result in death.
Medication & Treatment of CKD
Treatment options for Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD)
The treatment of CKD can vary from case to case depending on the disease stage and other health problems a patient has.
Your doctor may suggest the following depending on the cause of your CKD:
Control your blood pressure: You may be prescribed medicine to control your blood pressure.
Other measures to control your blood pressure include maintaining a healthy weight and restricting intake of salt.
Keep your diabetes under control: It is very important to strictly control glucose level to prevent the advancement of CKD.
Follow the diet plan to control protein levels: Your doctor may recommend a nutritionist or dietician who will help you plan a healthy diet with the right amount of protien, and the correct calories to help maintain an acceptible weight for your body.
Improve anemia: By using medication to enhance the manufacturing of EPO (erythropoiesis) hormone, which is responsible for red cells production, in addition to iron supplements to maintain sufficient iron levels.
Protect bone diseases: Maintain calcium and phosphorus balance.
While phosphorus is necessary for the blood, high levels of phosphorus in blood can weaken bones over time.
To protect bones, you may be recommended to restrict food high in phosphorus, and your doctor may prescribe medicines called phosphorus binders to be taken with food or snacks to prevent absorption of phosphate into the bloodstream.
In most cases, vitamin D supplements will also be recommended.
Exercise regularly: As recommended by your doctor.
Rule out your risk of heart disease: This includes controlling your diabetes, high blood pressure, anemia and high cholesterol.
Quit smoking if you still smoke: It only makes heart disease and kidney disease worse.
Avoid or stop using herbal remedies or herbal supplements: A study from Taiwan has shown that the people who regularly take herbal supplements have about 200–300 percent higher risk of developing kidney failure.
See the doctor regularly: Have your GFR, urine, and nutrition status checked on a determined schedule.
Discuss, ask questions, and keep records of your health and test results.
Medicines used in chronic kidney disease
Patients may be given multiple medicines aimed at delaying progression and preventing complications of the kidney disease.
To delay progression of kidney disease
Control the causes of the disease, such as hypertension and diabetes mellitus.
Patients with these diseases are known to be at risk of kidney problems.
Blood pressure and fasting blood sugar should be less than 130/85 mmHg and 130 mg/dl.
Restrict dietary protein
Understand the use of medications to reduce protein in urine and control blood pressure
To prevent and treat complications
The main kidney functions are to control electrolytes and water balance in body, producing erythropoietin, a hormone that helps building up red blood cells and regulate calcium and phosphorus.
These play a key role in maintenance of bone mass.
Decline in kidney functions may lead to various complications.
Cardiovascular disease: Blood pressure rises as the result of fluid overload and excessive production of vasoactive hormones, increasing one's risk of developing hypertension and/or suffering from congestive heart failure.
Medicines for blood pressure control may be prescribed such as antihypertensive drugs, antilipidemic drugs, and antithrombotic drugs.
Patients may be given more than one type of blood pressure medication to ensure optimal blood pressure control.
High blood potassium: Potassium can accumulate in the body when kidney function is not adequate to remove excessive amounts.
Patients may show a wide range of symptoms including malaise and irregular heartbeat.
Patients should avoid eating foods with high potassium, such as papaya, banana, lemon, plum, dried fruit, grapes, etc.
Also, patients may be prescribed medicine which acts as a potassium binder and removes excessive potassium through the feces.
A common side effect of these medicines is constipation.
Fluid volume overload: This condition happens when kidneys cannot excrete excessive water.
Symptoms may range from mild edema and shortness of breath to life-threatening pulmonary edema.
Water pills, such as a diuretic, may be prescribed in addition to daily restriction of salt and fluid intake.
Anemia: Erythropoietin stimulates the red blood cell formation.
This hormone level drops due to the decline of kidney function and cause anemia.
A doctor may prescribe an erythropoietin to be injected via subcutaneous route and an iron supplement to make sure that a patient’s body can generate red blood cells.
Patients may receive iron pills if the amount of iron is very low.
High blood phosphate: Due to reduced phosphate excretion, this condition is associated with the phosphate deposition in blood vessel walls and lead to vascular obstruction later on.
If this accumulation occurs at the main heart vessel, it can cause atherosclerotic heart disease and may impair heart function.
Patients should limit their consumption of high-phosphate diets including meat, eggs, dried beans, dairy products, soft drinks, etc., and take a phosphate binder such as calcium carbonate, calcium acetate, or aluminium hydroxide.
High parathyroid hormone leading to impaired bone metabolism: High blood phosphate and low blood calcium levels can trigger parathyroid hormone secretion.
This condition leads to the deterioration of bone density and bone abnormalities.
To reduce parathyroid hormone, patients may be prescribed calcitriol, cinacalcet.
Blood acidosis: The acidified blood may occur because the kidney cannot excrete organic acid products adequate resulting in bone loss or reduced muscle mass.
The patient may be prescribed the medicines for this condition.
Medication instructions
Patients or relatives should notify doctors or pharmacists about current medications including medications from outside the hospital, over-the-counter drugs, vitamins, herbal and dietary supplement.
Some drugs and herbs are harmful for the kidney.
Also, they may interact with kidney medicines.
Some vitamins may accumulate in your body, since the kidneys cannot process them normally.
Consult your doctor or pharmacist before taking any medications.
For effectiveness and safety, ask your doctor and pharmacist about newly prescribed medicines, changing dosages and duration.
If you have any old medications, make sure to update their labels.
You should be informed about ...
Drug name and dosage: Patient should know the drug's name, dosages and how they are administered.
You can make your own medication list to help you manage all of your medications easily or bring all medicines with you every time you see a doctor.
For kidney disease patients, dosage of some drugs should be adjusted based on creatinine clearance, the estimated kidney function calculated by creatinine measured from the blood.
Common dosage may be inappropriate dosage for your kidney function.
Indication of medications: Some drugs can be used for many indications.
Patients should understand the indication treated by their own medications, and the expected results from the medicines.
How to take medicines correctly: You can ask pharmacist how to take medicine correctly and suitably to your condition.
Some drugs you may only take temporarily depending on your condition.
What you should do when you forget to take a medication
You should ask your pharmacist since there are different instructions for each medication.
Normally, medicines should be taken as soon as you recall.
But if it near the time of the next dose, skip the missed dose and resume your usual dosing schedule.
Do not “double-up” the dose to catch up.
Treatment of Kidney Failure
When CKD progresses to an end stage, it is called kidney failure.
In this case, there are two treatment options: dialysis and kidney transplant.
The treatment's target is to keep the patient healthy and able to carry on with daily activities.
Dialysis
Dialysis is a process which eliminates waste products and excessive fluid from the body.
The two types of dialysis are hemodialysis and continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD).
Hemodialysis
Hemodialysis mimics the kidney's function in cleaning and filtering wastes products and excessive fluid from the blood.
The dialyzer filters your blood a small amount at a time, allowing wastes and extra fluids to pass from your blood into a cleansing fluid called dialysate.
Each session of hemodialysis takes around four hours and the patient usually goes to the dialysis center for at least two to three times a week.
Before hemodialysis treatments can begin, the doctor will need to prepare the vascular access where blood can flow in and out of your body by using either of the following procedures:
AV fistula - An artery and a vein are joined together in the arm (fistula) to create a native access.
AV Graft - An artificial vessel is used to join the artery and vein to create artificial access.
Catheter access - A plastic catheter is temporary inserted into a large vein to be used as an access for dialysis.
Continuous Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis (CAPD)
This technique uses dialysis fluids to filter wastes via catheter placed in your abdomen.
This type of dialysis is more convenient for some patients and can be done daily at home or office.
Kidney Transplant
Kidney transplantation surgically places a healthy kidney from another person into your body.
The new kidney does of the work of the failed kidneys.
Usually, the donated kidney is obtained through deceased organ donor who registered with the Thai Red Cross or through a donation by a patient’s relatives, or a spouse who has been legally married for at least three years.
Herpes Zoster in Older Adults
Herpes zoster , or shingles, is a condition caused by the chickenpox virus, that can present itself in patients of all ages.
The older you become, however, the more likely you are to develop the disease, along with various complications that the condition causes.
Symptoms of Herpes Zoster
Herpes Zoster Treatment Guidelines
Herpes Zoster Prevention
What is Herpes Zoster?
Herpes zoster is caused by the varicella zoster virus (VZR) – the same virus that causes chickenpox.
After a person recovers from chickenpox, the virus can enter the nervous system and lie dormant for years in the dorsal root ganglia without exhibiting any obvious symptoms.
However, the virus can reactivate as herpes zoster whenever the body’s immunity to infections is lowered, such as in older adults, those who do not get enough sleep or rest, patients infected with the HIV virus, patients with SLE autoimmune disease, patients taking immunosuppressive drugs, or those with chronic diseases like diabetes, heart disease, kidney disease, and so on.
Symptoms of Herpes Zoster
The first symptoms of herpes zoster are usually pain and burning sensations.
In some patients, even the slightest touch or having clothing touch or rub against the skin can cause pain.
After about 2 or 3 days, a rash will begin to appear, developing into clusters of chickenpox-like blisters.
Unlike chickenpox, however, the herpes zoster rash does not cover the entire body, but rather occurs as a band, strip, or small area of blisters over the infected nerve fibers.
The blisters fill with fluid and then finally crust over into scabs.
Some patients also experience fever or flu-like symptoms.
Complications of Herpes Zoster
The most common complication of herpes zoster is known as post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN), and is found most frequently in patients who are 60 years of age or older.
The duration of the pain from PHN is dependent on the individual; for some it lasts months, for others it lasts years, and for a few it can last for the rest of their lives.
Other complications include bacterial infections causing skin inflammation or eye infections.
Herpes Zoster Treatment Guidelines
Herpes zoster treatment may involve antiviral medicine, which can help to reduce pain, inflammation, and the amount of blisters developing on the skin.
Doctors may also prescribe other medications according to the symptoms and/or complications found, such as pain relief medicine, antihistamines, antibiotics, etc.
Herpes Zoster Prevention
At present, Thailand has a vaccine for the prevention of herpes zoster in older adults, and a one-injection vaccination is recommended for adults aged 60 and over.
This vaccine can help to reduce both the occurrence of herpes zoster and the severity of symptoms associated with herpes zoster once contracted.
However, for patients with chronic conditions or other diseases that could cause weakened immune systems, it may be necessary to receive the vaccination before reaching the age of 60 and/or as per the recommendations of a doctor.
Well Elderly Vaccine Program
The New Life Healthy Aging Clinic recognizes the unique needs of our older patients.
We have laid out a comprehensive vaccine program designed for older patients, based on preventable infectious diseases found more commonly with age.
Preventing and reducing complications of disease helps the older person keep healthy and independent.
Patients are advised to consult our experienced medical team at the New Life Healthy Aging Clinic for education and appropriate recommendations for these vaccinations.
Elderly Vaccinations:
Shingles (Herpes Zoster) Vaccination
It is recommended that persons 60 years and above receive the shingles vaccination, as the risk of shingles increases with age.
Symptoms of shingles include a painful rash and burning sensations along the nerve, which in the elderly can last longer and be more severe than those affected at a younger age.
Pneumococcal Vaccination
It is recommended to receive the 2 different pneumococcal vaccinations, starting with the conjugate vaccine for 13 different serotypes, and the polysaccharide vaccine for another 23 serotypes.
The S.pneumonia (Streptococcus pneumoniae) bacteria is a common cause of infections within the elderly population, causing pneumonia, sinus infections, and can even infect the bloodstream or the brain, resulting in pneumococcal meningitis.
Vaccination will decrease the chances of developing these conditions.
Tetanus Vaccination
It is recommended to receive a tetanus vaccination once every 10 years.
Tetanus disease has been on the rise again in recent times, and the elderly are just as at risk as any other population.
Influenza Vaccination (Flu Vaccination)
It is recommended to receive an influenza vaccination yearly, sometime during the rainy season through the winter season, as older persons infected with the flu often end up needing to be hospitalized or developing complications.
Conditions*
Prices exclude doctor’s fee or any additional charges which may apply.
All vaccinations should be received under the guidance of a doctor.
Prices are valid until 31 December 2016
Botulinum Toxin Injections for the Treatment of Neurological and Movement Disorders
Botulinum toxin (BoNT) is a protein and neurotoxin which is extremely effective in treating certain neurological and movement disorders.
BoNT injections are used to treat disabling pain, varieties of dystonia, abnormal movement disorders and autonomic nervous system.
Symptoms of neurological conditions
How BoNT works
Risk Factors
Common side effects from
Recommendation
Symptoms of neurological conditions
Pain
Chronic daily headaches, including chronic migraine headache or chronic tension headache
Myofascial (tissues covering and connecting muscles), neck or back pain
Movement disorders
Blepharospasm (eyelid twitches)
Hemifacial spasm (twitches on one half of the face)
Oromandibular dystonia (contractions of the mouth, jaw and tongue muscles)
Cervical dystonia (contractions of the neck muscles)
Truncal dystonia (contractions of the torso muscles)
Hand or foot dystonia
Refractory tremor (persistent and uncontrollable shaking)
Palatal tremor (shaking of the rear roof of the mouth)
Tics, Myoclonus (brief, involuntary twitching of the muscles)
Spasticity (stiff or rigid muscles)
Bruxism (teeth grinding)
Hyperhidrosis (excessive sweating, especially of the armpits, palms and soles)
Hypersalivation or Sialorrhea (excessive production of saliva)
How BoNT works
BoNT works by blocking unwanted transmissions from being sent along the nervous system by preventing an organic compound called acetylcholine from being released.
This reduces the volume of transmissions passing the point where the nervous system connects with the muscle system connect and reaching the body’s pain receptors and involuntary nervous system.
Risk Factors
Pregnancy: Studies on animals show adverse effects on the fetus but no controlled tests have been conducted on humans.
Lactation: Safety unknown due to insufficient data
Drug interaction: Can cause negative reactions if taken at the same time as some antibiotics ( aminoglycosides), malaria medication (Chloroquine), and neuromuscular blocking agents
Neuromuscular disorders: Can cause a muscle weakening condition known as myasthenia gravis
Common side effects from:
Facial injection to treat hemifacial spasm, eyelid twitching, chronic daily headache, facial tics, teeth grinding, or hypersalivation
Bruising
Drooping eyelid
Blurred vision, double vision
Facial weakness
Dry mouth
Neck injection to treat neck muscle contractions or neck pain
Pain at the point of injection
Local muscle weakness
Difficulty swallowing
Dry mouth, hoarse voice
Limb and body injection to treat muscle contractions, twitching, or shaking
Local muscle weakness
General usage
The toxin may spread beyond the injected area, causing difficulty with swallowing or breathing.
The risks increase when BoNT is injected into children, used in high doses or injected into the wrong muscles.
Recommendation
Always consult a specialist before receiving this treatment
Report any side effects to your doctor immediately
Carotid Angioplasty
What is a Carotid Angioplasty?
Angioplasty is a surgical and stenting procedure in which a balloon is used to open narrowed or blocked blood vessels of the brain.
What is a Carotid Angioplasty?
How is a Carotid Angioplasty done?
Risks & complications of a Carotid Angioplasty
Alternatives
How is a Carotid Angioplasty done?
During the procedure, the surgeon will insert a small balloon catheter into an artery in the groin or arm and move it into a narrowing in the brain’s artery.
The surgeon then inserts a small balloon and inflates the balloon to enlarge the narrowing in the artery.
Carotid angioplasty generally takes 1 to 2 hours.
The patient is awake for the procedure but local anesthesia is used and pain medication can be given as needed.
Why is a Carotid Angioplasty done?
Carotid Angioplasty is normally used in stroke treatment or stroke prevention in the following cases:
A carotid artery has a significant amount of blockage
The patient has had a stroke or a transient ischemic attack (also called a TIA)
The patient has had a recurrence of blockage in the same artery
The patient is not physically capable for surgery
The blockage is difficult to reach with other procedures or surgery
Risks & complications of a Carotid Angioplasty
As with any surgery, there are risks, including the possibility of:
Complications associated with anesthesia
Bleeding in the catheter access location
Stroke / stroke recurrence
Allergic reaction to chemicals used in the procedure or investigative procedures
Infection
Often, the stroke is related to some facet of the patient’s lifestyle or some form of co-morbidity, such as hypertension or diabetes.
The carotid angioplasty attempts to correct the symptoms of the condition which brought about the blockage, but does nothing to deal with the underlying reason why the blockage started in the first place.
Because of this, without changes in the patient’s lifestyle or treatment of the co-morbid factor, the blockage is likely to happen again.
Risks can be reduced by following the physician's instructions before and after the procedure.
Alternatives
There may be cases where the blockages are not able to be treated by the angioplasty, or the angioplasty was performed and the results are not sufficient.
In these cases, a carotid endarterectomy (CEA) may be required.
Candidate eligibility
Not every patient is eligible for this procedure.
The doctor will review the extent of the blockage as well as the patient’s medical history to determine if this surgery is appropriate for the patient.
High levels of breast milk producing hormones result from stimulation of the breast.
These include the infant suckling, squeezing milk from the breast by hand, or by using a breast pump.
These particular hormones are produced more during the nighttime than during the day, therefore, feeding at night is especially effective in helping with the speed at which breastmilk is produced.
If the infant feeds less often, lower amounts of milk will be produced; the more frequently an infant feeds, the larger the amount of milk will be produced (as the level of milk producing hormones are at their highest during feeding and up to around 30 minutes after feeding has ended).
After that, the hormone levels drop and level off within 3 hours on average.
Regular feeding will ensure that hormone levels remain high and cause the breasts to produce milk continuously.
Anything affecting the mother’s physical or emotional comfort can result in milk not flowing as well as it should, and the infant not receiving enough milk.
Therefore, whenever feeding takes place, the mother should try to relax as much as possible.
Signs That an Infant is Getting Enough Milk
Breasts should be firmer prior to feeding and softer afterwards.
You can hear the child swallow at intervals.
The infant breastfeeds no less than 8 times per day.
The child is calm, happy, relaxed, and can nap after feeding.
After 3-4 days of age, the child’s urine is a clear yellow color; the child defecates 5-6 times per day.
The infant is active and has a healthy complexion.
Duration of Meals
The duration of feeding varies for each child.
Some infants finish feeding within 10-15 minutes, while others can take nearly an hour.
On average, feeding takes about 20-30 minutes, but no two infants’ feeding times will be the same.
Properly Holding an Infant While Breastfeeding
Holding the infant correctly during breastfeeding will be more effective.
While breastfeeding, the mother should be in a comfortable position and as relaxed as possible.
How to properly hold an infant while feeding:
The infant’s head and body should be straight; the neck and arms should not be twisted.
The infant’s head should be level to their mother’s breast; the infant’s nose should be at their mother’s nipple.
Hold the infant as close as possible.
The infant’s entire body must be supported, including the newborn’s head, neck, back, and bottom.
Characteristics of Proper Suckling
The infant opens their mouth wide and latches tightly on the mother’s breast.
The infant’s mouth should be covering most of the areola, more so below the nipple than above.
The infant’s chin and nose should be snug against their mother’s breast.
Common Problems with Breastfeeding
Sore or Cracked Nipples – This may result from the mother holding the child incorrectly while feeding, therefore, giving the child a shallow latch around the areola, and suckling only the nipple; or the child suckling harder and longer when the mother has little milk left, leading to pain in the nipple and making feeding too painful for the mother.
Tip: Hold the child in the correct position before feeding.
When the child opens their mouth wide, quickly move the child’s head towards the breast in order for the child to latch on properly.
Start feeding from the side that hurts the least first.
If it is too painful, refrain from breastfeeding for 1-2 days and use a breast pump instead.
The mother should pump the milk every 2-3 hours until she is able to breastfeed again.
Squeezing some milk, applying it to any wounds on the nipple and then letting it dry may also help to alleviate pain.
Engorged Breasts – This is caused by producing a large amount of breast milk and not being able to release it properly.
Characteristics include the breasts becoming warm, heavy, hard, and sore with redness; milk not flowing; and breasts being too tender to be squeezed or touched.
It can also cause fever, though generally not lasting for more than 24 hours.
Tip: Apply a heat pack to the breast for about 5-10 minutes.
If there is too much pain, pain relief medication may be taken.
If the mother is able to breastfeed, the child should be held correctly while nursing, and should be fed more often to help alleviate engorgement.
Engorgement may also be reduced by releasing the milk though either squeezing by hand or using a pump.
Mastitis – This results from milk remaining in the breast for prolonged periods and becoming inflamed around the breast tissue.
It can become red and painful at some parts, produce hard lumps, cause fever, and lead to fatigue.
Breast milk build-up can be due to infrequent feeding, feeding for short durations, and the mother not having time to pump breast milk.
Alternately, it can occur as a result of poor milk flow due to ineffective sucking, the mother pressing the breast while feeding, the mother laying on her breasts for long periods, or the mother wearing a bra which is too small.
Tip: Release milk as quickly as possible by regularly breastfeeding, starting with the problematic side first.
The infant’s head should be level to the mother’s breast.
Take pain relief medication if there is any pain.
If symptoms do not improve within 24 hours, consult your doctor or breastfeeding clinic.
Decompressive Craniectomy
A decompressive craniectomy is a surgical procedure that removes a part of the skull, which will be replaced at a later date.
Once the patient’s brain swelling has subsided and no other complications have developed, then cranioplasty can be performed whereby either the original piece of bone that had been removed and freeze-stored can be put back in place, or an artificial plate may be attached.
The goal is to relieve pressure in the brain and allow a swollen brain enough room to expand without causing any further damage.
Increased intracranial pressure could cause brain herniation which then compromises cerebral blood flow, which can be fatal.
This procedure is sometimes performed on victims of traumatic brain injury or for those who have had a massive stroke.
Surgical Indications for Decompressive Craniectomy
Severe brain swelling – extensive brain infarction
High intracranial pressure, despite treatment with medication
Large blood clots inside the head
All surgical procedures carry some risks, and decompressive craniectomy can cause certain complications, such as:
Intracranial hemorrhage or formation of new blood clots inside the head after surgery
Infections such as meningitis or brain abscess
Breathing problems, pneumonia
In the early stages following surgery, patients must remain in the intensive care unit so that vital signs, level of consciousness and other symptoms can be monitored closely.
Symptoms Requiring Immediate Medical Attention
Following surgery, if the patient experiences any of the symptoms below, medical attention should be sought immediately:
High fever
Any symptoms indicating infection, such as pain, swelling, or redness
Change in conditions or levels of consciousness, such as decreased alertness or increased drowsiness or tiredness
Muscle weakness in arms and/or legs
Severe headache
Vomiting
Headaches & Migraines
While headaches are typically caused by muscle tightening of the neck and scalp (e.g. tension headache), persistent or frequent headaches are often indicators of a deeper neurological issue.
Often this may be the only noticeable symptom for many patients.
It is important to have abnormal headaches evaluated before they go on for too long.
Migraines are different than a typical headache in that they are caused by dilation of blood vessels in the brain, and are chemically related.
Migraines heavily impact quality of life, no matter what the age.
For infrequent migraine attacks, there are migraine specific pain-relieving medications which are not available to the public, and which should only be taken with a review program from a doctor to ensure proper dosage.
For frequent suffers of migraines, there are preventative medicines which, by matching with your physiology and the pain symptoms, can be effective in significantly reducing the attacks, considerably improving your quality of life.
To discuss your headache and migraine issue with a doctor, you can simply Make an Appointment online.
Microneurosurgery
Microneurosurgery is a minimally invasive neurosurgery performed using a high quality, high resolution 3-D camera equipped with a surgical microscope.
This enables physicians to amplify and examine more clearly.
This improves accuracy and safety, particularly in deep areas of the brain, and allows for more successful surgical outcomes than would otherwise be attained with only the naked eye.
Brain Diseases Treatable with Microneurosurgery
Other Medical Instruments and Equipment Used to Aid in Microneurosurgery
Benefits of Microneurosurgery
Brain Diseases Treatable with Microneurosurgery
Cerebral aneurysms
Brain and spinal cord tumors
Intracerebral hemorrhaging
Other Medical Instruments and Equipment Used to Aid in Microneurosurgery
Microneurosurgery may also require the use of other instruments and medical technology in order to increase its effectiveness and allow for even greater surgical success.
These additional instruments may include:
Ultrasonic aspirator – used to break up and suction tumors  with high frequency ultrasonic sound waves, preserving and protecting surrounding blood vessels and, as a result, causing little or no bleeding during surgery
Nerve stimulator – used to locate and identify nerves adjacent  to tumors, allowing doctors to perform surgical procedures more precisely
Use of fluorescent dye in some types of tumors – allowing surgeons to locate and distinguish tumor cells and blood vessels more clearly
Benefits of Microneurosurgery
Reduced impact to tissue at the surgical site and surrounding areas, causing less tissue trauma, and thus less post-surgical pain at the incision site
Faster recovery and shorter postoperative hospital stays
Greater surgical accuracy and safety, thus minimizing complications
New Robotic Gait Training Technology Speeds Rehabilitation
Bumrungrad now uses this advanced technology to restore quality of life sooner for patients with neurological disorders.
Neurological disorders, such as a stroke, Parkinson’s disease and brain injury, as well as weakened leg muscles, are all conditions which prevent patients from being able to walk normally.
Effective rehabilitation involves performing the same movements repeatedly and continuously over an extended period.
Under the guidance of rehabilitation medicine specialists and physical therapists, Bumrungrad Hospital provides a Robotic Gait Training System to support patients going through this rehabilitation process.
Employing the latest advances in technology, the system helps patients to walk near normally and restore their quality of life in a shorter period than can be achieved through traditional rehabilitation therapy.
About Robotic Gait Training
Robotic Gait Training is the latest medical innovation used to enhance the effectiveness of ambulation training in patients with neurological disorders and weakened muscles.
The main features of the robotic gait system are:
Adjustable body weight support enabling patients to train in an active and more natural way
A variety of computer-assisted gait training programs including regular stepping, weight bearing, walking on flat ground, and climbing up and down stairs, with the appropriate training program chosen for each patient
Motion range displayed in real time enabling physicians and rehabilitation specialists to develop a proper rehabilitation plan for each patient
Advantages of Robotic Gait Training
Facilitates a gradual increase in the duration of the training and encourages the brain cells to learn from the repetitive training enabling the patients to achieve their walking goals from a shorter training period
Enables patients to train in a variety of programs, including stepping, weight bearing, walking on flat ground, and climbing up and down stairs
Reduces muscle soreness or fatigue caused by excessive exercises or making inappropriate movements
Offers an adjustable training program and speed for each patient
Enables patients to regain muscle strength and walk over a longer distance
Reduces the body weight support for both patients and therapists during training
Enables patients to walk near normally and restore their quality of life in a shorter period than can be achieved with traditional rehabilitation methods
Patients who are suitable for robotic gait training
Patients who are suitable for robotic gait training include patients with neurological disorders and weakened leg muscles which result in an inability to walk normally and maintain balance.
Relevant neurological disorders include:
Stroke
Parkinson’s disease
Spinal cord injuries
Brain injuries or accidents
Before being approved for robotic gait training, a patient must first be evaluated by a doctor.
Parkinson’s Disease
Parkinson’s disease is a progressive disorder that occurs as a result of the degeneration of brain cells (neurodegeneration), particularly those responsible for the production of dopamine.
This causes a decrease in dopamine levels which then leads to impairment of the motor system and movement.
Symptoms of Parkinson’s Disease
Causes of Parkinson’s Disease
Treatment for Parkinson’s Disease
Symptoms of Parkinson’s Disease
Physical Symptoms
Tremors
Slowed movement (bradykinesia)
Decreased facial expression
Slowed, quieter speech, and monotone voice
Drooling
Rigidity or stiffness
Difficulty walking, shuffling gait, feet freezing or seeming to stick to the floor
Frequent falls
Psychological Symptoms
Depression
Anxiety
Other Symptoms
Short-term memory loss in early stages and dementia in advanced stages
Excessive sweating
Bloating, constipation
Frequent urination, urinary incontinence
Loss of sense of taste
Dizziness when standing up due to drop in blood pressure (postural hypotension)
Causes of Parkinson’s Disease
The exact causes of Parkinson’s disease remain unknown, but there are various factors that are believed to play a role, including:
Genetic factors, as certain gene mutations appear to increase the risk of Parkinson’s disease.
Environmental factors, such as exposure to certain toxins over an extended period of time, whether through inhalation or consumption.
However, which particular toxins or environmental substances can cause Parkinson’s disease is unknown.
Treatment for Parkinson’s Disease
At present there is no treatment to cure or reverse the effects of Parkinson’s disease.
The following treatments are available to alleviate symptoms and slow down the progression of the condition:
Treatment with medication, whereby medication is used to activate the dopamine system.
Deep brain stimulation surgical treatment, in which surgery is performed to implant electrodes into a targeted area of the brain to stimulate and provide electrical impulses to the brain.
It can be used for patients who have already been treated using medication but who have shown no positive response to the medications and continue to experience an increase in symptoms.
The doctor will determine the best treatment option for each individual patient.
Trigeminal Neuralgia
Trigeminal neuralgia is a medical condition most commonly found amongst middle-aged and elderly people.
It is a condition which causes a sharp pain in the face – and sometimes in and around the gums, which can lead to people to often mistaking trigeminal neuralgia for an ordinary toothache.
What is the Trigeminal Nerve
Causes of Trigeminal Neuralgia
Symptoms of Trigeminal Neuralgia
Methods for Treating Trigeminal Neuralgia
What is the Trigeminal Nerve?
The trigeminal nerve is the fifth cranial nerve.
It is responsible for motor functions such as chewing and transmitting sensations from the face to the brain.
People have 12 pairs of cranial nerves in total, and each pair emerges directly from the brain.
The trigeminal nerve reports all facial sensations, including temperature and direct physical contact.
If anything interferes with the normal functions of the trigeminal nerve, it can result in a range of abnormal symptoms known as trigeminal neuralgia.
Causes of Trigeminal Neuralgia
The most common cause of trigeminal neuralgia is when a blood vessel moves too close to the trigeminal nerve, and begins to strike or press against it.
In turn, this compression causes the trigeminal nerve to function abnormally and to become more sensitive to stimulation than usual.
The nerve may also become inflamed due to multiple sclerosis.
Symptoms of Trigeminal Neuralgia
Patients with Trigeminal neuralgia will experience a sharp pain in the face similar to an electric shock, or pain in and around the gums, causing people to often mistake it for an ordinary toothache.
Symptoms of trigeminal neuralgia show up periodically, but are more likely to occur during physical contact with the face such as when washing one's face, brushing one's teeth, shaving, or even when in windy weather.
Diagnosing Trigeminal Neuralgia
In diagnosing trigeminal neuralgia, the doctor will examine the patient's medical history in detail, and may also perform a brain scan using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
This allows the doctor to distinguish trigeminal neuralgia from other conditions which cause similar symptoms.
Methods for Treating Trigeminal Neuralgia
Medication: In the first stage of treatment, the doctor will normally prescribe anticonvulsant medication to help alleviate the pain.
However, this method of treatment does not combat the root cause of the condition.
Additionally, if the patient's symptoms do not respond to the anticonvulsant medication, the doctor may consider an alternative treatment.
Surgery: The doctor may perform surgery to reposition the blood vessel that is pressing on the trigeminal nerve.
This operation, known as a microvascular decompression (MVD), combats the root cause of the trigeminal neuralgia.
MVD involves opening the skull and inserting a sponge between the nerve and offending artery or vein causing the pain.
It is successful in relieving symptoms for 80-85% of patients.
However, as with any type of surgery, there is the risk of further complications developing, such as infection or bleeding during the operation.
The major benefit of MVD is that it causes little or no facial numbness compared to other methods.
Radiation: This type of treatment aims to damage the trapped nerve, in order to numb the affected area.
However, in some cases the pain may reoccur spontaneously, a condition otherwise known as anesthesia dolorosa.
Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) Reconstructive Surgery
Reconstructive surgery is a common treatment option for anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) tears.
The surgery aims to prevent the shinbone (tibia) from moving too far forward, and restore the normal functioning of the knee in order to prevent further damage to its surrounding cartilage.
During ACL surgery, the doctor will remove what remains of the torn ligament and install a replacement in the same location.
In the last ten years, the techniques used in ACL surgery have changed significantly, and improvements have been made that now allow patients to recover from the surgery much faster than before.
A knee arthroscopy, for example, is a new technique which has evolved significantly in recent years as a treatment option for a torn ACL.
Types of Surgery
Risks of Surgery
Preparations Before Surgery
Types of Surgery
The three main types of ACL surgery are known as single-bundle, double-bundle and selective bundle reconstructive surgery.
Single-bundle ACL reconstruction: Doctor usually choose this type of surgery to operate on a torn ligament that does not require rotation, or when the patient has only limited control of joint movement, such as after repeat surgery following previously unsuccessful surgery.
Double-bundle ACL reconstruction: This method is the new standard for ACL reconstructive surgery.
It is supported by a wealth of research which demonstrates that double-bundle ACL surgery can restore greater strength to a torn ACL that requires rotation, when compared with single-bundle surgery (Am J Sports Med 2010;38(1):25 and Am J Sports Med 2008;36(2):290).
Selective bundle reconstruction: This type of surgery is used in cases where many parts of the ACL have suffered injury.
With selective bundle reconstruction, it is not necessary for the doctor to remove the whole of the ACL, but only the injured parts of it.
This method uses natural fiber replacements, which helps to stabilize the position of the shinbone and the functioning of surrounding muscles, so that the patient can regain control of the bones of the leg (Knee Surg Sports Traumatol Arthrosc 2010; 18:47–51).
Risks of Surgery
Risks associated with use of an anesthetic.
Numbness or weakness in the legs due to long-term posture changes.
Bleeding during and after surgery.
Damage to nearby organs during surgery, such as nerve endings, blood vessels and kneecaps.
Infection of bones or joints, which may occur immediately or shortly after surgery.
Preparations Before Surgery
Do not eat or drink for around 6 - 8 hours before surgery.
Do not take aspirin or other blood-thinning medications for at least one week before surgery.
Patients should also inform their doctor if they are using any other medication.
Undergoing physiotherapy before surgery helps the knee to return to its original functioning as quickly as possible.
Patients who receive ACL surgery while the knee is still in pain or still swollen after injury usually have problems rehabilitating the knee following surgery.
Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) Tears
Ligaments are tough bands of connective tissues that connect one bone to another. T
he anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is located in the center of the knee and extends diagonally from the end of the thigh bone (femur) down to the shinbone (tibia).
The ACL is responsible for stabilizing the shinbone so that it has a full range of movement, and is made up of two bundles of tissues which crisscross inside the knee, namely the anteromedial and posterolateral bundles.
The two bundles work together to allow the knee and the shinbone to move in a range of directions.
Symptoms of Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) Tears
Treatment of Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) Tears
Symptoms of Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) Tears
ACL tears normally occur when a person suddenly changes direction or turns heavily on the knee, such as when playing football, when landing from a basketball jump, or from falling down when skiing.
Common symptoms of a torn ACL are as follows:
A sensation of having something irritating the shin from the inside.
Inability to use the knee at the time of injury.
A sudden swelling of the knee, or a swelling of the knee within a few hours of injuring it.
Symptoms of severe pain that prevent you from performing other activities.
Treatment of Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) Tears
Patients who suffer a torn ACL require treatment to prevent further damage to the knee and reduce the risk of subsequent knee injuries.
Generally, treatment options for an ACL tear are divided into surgical and non-surgical forms of treatment.
Non-surgical treatment, which is the first stage of treatment for an ACL tear, uses the RICE technique combined with medication, as described below:
R = rest
I = ice
C = compression
E = elevation
Patients should use this method in order to train the joints and muscles around the knee so that it can move as before, and should exercise using range-of-motion techniques to strengthen the knee as quickly as possible, with the aim of returning the knee to its normal functioning.
When the patient's symptoms have improved and the injured knee has increased in strength, the doctor will examine the knee again to assess whether the patient can perform certain physical activities, and at what level of intensity.
If the patient is still unable to use his or her knee as before, then the patient must reduce his or her level of physical activity.
If the knee does not recover naturally using this method, then the patient may need to undergo reconstructive surgery.
Reconstructive surgery is commonly used for the treatment of ACL tears.
This type of surgery aims to prevent the shinbone from moving too far forward and return the knee to its normal functioning, thus preventing further damage to surrounding cartilage.
During reconstructive ACL surgery, the doctor will remove what remains of the torn ligament and install a replacement.
Bunions (Hallux Valgus)
Bunions , or hallux valgus, are a bone deformity at the joint of the big toe.
Bunions develop when the big toe begins to point inwards and overlap nearby toes, causing the joint of the big toe to grow larger and become swollen.
Bunions can also cause the skin at the base of the big toe to turn red, which results in sometimes being mistaken for a skin disorder.
As bunions develop gradually, people soon notice that their big toe is starting to look crooked or unsightly.
In some cases, people with bunions may also experience pain when walking and wearing shoes.
Causes of Bunions
Symptoms of Bunions
Diagnosing Bunions
Treating Bunions
Preventing BunionsCauses of Bunions
Bunions are caused by abnormalities in the bone structure of the foot.
These abnormalities are usually hereditary, such as flat feet or a slanted big toe.
Wearing high heels or shoes with little toe room is not a cause of bunions, but it is a factor which may cause symptoms to worsen.
Symptoms of Bunions
In the early stages of this condition, when the big toe is only slightly slanted, there may not be any problems.
However, when the big toe begins to severely slant, or in the event that a person continuously wears shoes that are too tight, consistently squeezing the toes together, the pressure exerted on the big toe may begin to produce noticeable symptoms, such as:
A bulge around the base of the big toe
Swelling, redness, or pain around the base of the big toe
Intermittent or continuous foot pain
Thickening of the skin at the base of the big toe
Loss of the full range of movement in the big toe, resulting in difficulty walking
Complications
Although bunions are not always problematic, if left untreated they can cause further complications including:
Bursitis : an inflammation and swelling of a bursa, a fluid-filled sac which acts as a cushion in areas where bone, tendon, and muscle converge around a joint.
Bursitis inflammation causes pain.
Hammer Toe : develops when the joint of a toe becomes bent or curls downward due to dislocation, causing pain and increased pressure.
Pain and swelling on the sole of the foot.
Diagnosing Bunions
In order to diagnose bunions, the doctor will need to perform a clinical examination of the outside of the foot.
However, in cases where further confirmation is required, the doctor may also have an x-ray done.
Treating Bunions
Treatment of bunions depends on the severity of the symptoms, pain, and pressure on the patient's toe.
Treatment may begin with simple measures such as changing the type of shoes one patient wears, or wearing insoles to help support the affected area.
Patients may also be advised to take over-the-counter painkillers, avoid physical activities which aggravate symptoms, or place the affected foot in an ice massage to alleviate pain and swelling.
In the event that these treatment options do not improve symptoms, or if the patient still can’t perform everyday activities without being in pain, then surgery may be needed to rearrange the protruding bone, tendon, and nerves into their correct positions.
Preventing Bunions
Choosing comfortable shoes, which puts less pressure on the joints and bones in our feet, helps to alleviate the symptoms of bunions and stop them from developing.
Make sure to always keep comfort as a priority when purchasing footwear.
Osteoporosis
Osteoporosis is a type of bone disease that involves bone denigration due to a loss of calcium in the bones.
This condition is generally not painful, unless bones are fractured or broken.
It is most commonly found in the spine, hips, and wrists, but can also occur in other parts of the body.
In addition, osteoporosis is a major cause of spinal fractures or spinal deformities in older women.
Causes of Osteoporosis
Common Risk Factors
Treatment of Osteoporosis
Causes of Osteoporosis
The loss of estrogen due to menopause is the most common cause of osteoporosis.
In fact, 25% of women older than 60 years old are found to have osteoporosis.
Women who go through menopause early or those who have had their ovaries surgically removed before the age of 45 are at risk.
The aging process is a major factor because, by the age of 50, bones start thinning by 1-3% every year.
Common Risk Factors
A family history of osteoporosis
European or Asian lineage
Lack of vitamin D or calcium
Regular consumption of alcohol or caffeine
Smoking
Sharp decreases in weight due to excessive exercising or dieting
Overuse of steroids
Conditions such as hormonal imbalances or thyroid disease
Chronic diseases such as liver disease or gastrointestinal disorders
Osteoporosis in Men
Osteoporosis can also be found in men, but it is more commonly found in women.
The main risks in males come from alcoholism or a lack of testosterone.
Ways to Protect Yourself
Eat healthy, especially foods rich in calcium and Vitamin D, which are important minerals for building strong bones.
These two minerals should be taken from childhood to ensure bone strength, which will reach its peak in a person’s late 20’s or early 30’s.
Exercise regularly.
Don’t smoke.
Avoid drinking beverages that contain alcohol or caffeine.
Have regular bone health screenings, especially when over the age of 50, in order to prevent bone loss at an early stage.
Treatment of Osteoporosis
Once someone is diagnosed with osteoporosis, a doctor may recommend medication.
The type of treatment varies based on what the doctor considers to be the most appropriate for the patient.
Mastitis occurs when milk is retained in a breast that is not adequately expressed or the obstruction of milk duct, or through an infection caused by germs that enter the breast through cracked or damaged nipples.
Mastitis usually follows engorgement that is not appropriately managed and slowly worsens.
The breast may feel hard and become red, swollen, and painful to the touch.
The mother may experience headaches, fatigue, fever higher than 38 degrees Celsius and may have obstruction of the milk duct as well.
Causes of Mastitis
An oversupply of breast milk which exceeds the baby’s demand.
Baby does not empty the breast milk during feedings resulted in residual milk in the breast.
Baby does not suck milk correctly causing retention of breast milk.
Obstruction of milk ducts
Nipple is dry and cracked, allowing germs into the breast and causing infection.
Treatment
Continue breastfeeding even though it is painful because breastfeeding will help speed up the recovery process.
Let your baby feed from the breast with mastitis first to ensure maximum removal.
Breastfeed at 8 to 12 times in a 24-hour-period and for at least 15 to 20 minutes on each side.
Ensure that your baby is latched on correctly and position your baby’s chin towards the lump(s) in your breast so the baby can use their tongue more efficiently to drain that area.
Change your baby’s position with each feed so milk is being empty from all parts of the breast.
Gently massage your breast while your baby is nursing by massaging the area above the plugged duct and down towards the nipple, to release the plug.
After breastfeeding use cold compresses to reduce pain and swelling.
If needed, take painkiller, such as paracetamol.
Wear a supportive bra that is not too loose or too tight.
If your condition doesn’t improve within 24 hours, see your doctor or visit the Breastfeeding Clinic.
Plantar Fasciitis
Plantar fasciitis is a common foot condition that causes pain in the heel, across the sole, and sometimes into the arch area of the foot.
Symptoms
The main symptom of plantar fasciitis is a sharp pain in the heel, sole, or arch of the foot.
The pain is sometimes described as a burning or aching sensation and tends to come on gradually.
It is often most severe when weight is first placed on the foot after a long period of rest or inactivity, such as when getting out of bed in the morning or standing up after a long period of sitting.
The pain also tends to worsen after standing, walking or jogging for extended periods.
Causes
Plantar fasciitis is caused by ligament damage, which can be a simple part of the aging process.
The condition is most common in people over the age of 40.
However, there are several other contributing factors which are usually associated with excessive or extended stress being placed on the ligament.
The main risk factors associated with activities include the following:
Standing for prolonged periods
Jogging or running long distances
Suddenly increasing the distance when running
Running on hard surfaces
Wearing inappropriate footwear (non-cushioned soles)
Walking barefoot for extended periods
Certain physical factors can also cause plantar fasciitis.
These include the following:
Being overweight
Flat feet or high arches
Tightness in the Achilles tendon
Rheumatoid arthritis
Testing and Diagnosis
Preliminary diagnosis is usually based on a review of the patient’s history and recent activities together with a physical examination to assess the severity of the symptoms.
In some more severe cases, the doctor will request additional imaging tests to rule out more serious causes of the pain, such as fractures or tumors.
Additional tests include:
X-rays
Ultrasound
MRI
Treatment
Once the condition is diagnosed, the doctor will choose the most appropriate treatment based on the severity of the symptoms and the extent of damage to the ligament.
Medication may be prescribed to reduce inflammation.
However, non-medicinal treatments can also be very helpful in treating the condition.
Orthotic devices, such as arch supports or heel cushions, can help take the strain off the ligament.
Physiotherapy in the form of stretching the foot, ankle and Achilles tendon is also an effective form of treatment in many cases.
If the symptoms persist and do not respond to the treatments already mentioned, then steroid injections may be required in some rare cases.
Steroid injections are effective in curing more than 98% of patients’ symptoms.
However, they can take up to 18 months to take full effect and the symptoms may also re-occur later, requiring a new round of injections to be given.
Surgery is only recommended in the most severe cases.
Snoring
Snoring occurs when our upper airways narrow during sleep.
As a result, air is unable to travel smoothly through to our windpipe and lungs, and subsequently, our bodies are unable to take in enough oxygen.
While snoring alone does not necessarily have any major impact on our health, there is a relationship between snoring and sleep apnea, which is a respiratory disorder which causes the patient to stop breathing or have shallow breathing for short periods at various intervals throughout the night.
It can lead to poor sleep quality, which can result in a range of physical, mental, and emotional health problems, such as fatigue, concentration and memory issues, mood swings, and metabolic derangement (which can cause diabetes and obesity).
Additionally, snoring and sleep apnea can eventually lead to issues such as high blood pressure, irregular heartbeat, and cerebrovascular disease, and is a well-known risk factor for heart attack and stroke, as well as cause a reduction in testosterone in men, which often leads to sexual dysfunction.
Who is at Risk?
Risk of developing snoring and sleep apnea can arise from many different issues, which include:
Excessive weight; it has been found that those who are overweight have narrower upper airways.
Those with regular nasal congestion or nasal allergies.
Those with a crooked or curved nose.
Those with a misshapen face or chin, such as a small chin (micrognathism) or a chin that droops down (retrognathia).
Those with large tonsils that can block their respiratory tract.
Those who regularly drink alcohol or smoke tobacco.
Those who take medications which cause drowsiness, such as anti-allergens, sleeping tablets or stress relievers.
Men are 6-10 times more likely to snore than women.
Women are much more likely to snore after they have reached menopause.
Those who have abnormally high growth hormone (acromegaly) or take too much testosterone supplements.
Negative Effects of Snoring
Some negative side effects of snoring include:
Loud snoring disturbs the sleep of others
Snoring briefly interrupts your sleep while your body gasps for air
Other symptoms include: frequent urination, feeling exhausted and dizzy in the morning, headaches and feeling unusually fatigued, irritable, and moody during the day.
If you find that you are suffering from any of these symptoms, consult your doctor for observation in a sleep lab to conclude an appropriate route of treatment.
Reaching a Diagnosis
The diagnosis of snoring and sleep apnea can be completed by sleep lab monitoring, which requires the patient to stay overnight at the hospital.
The diagnosis will be split into two stages, in which the first part will observe whether there is abnormal breathing or not during sleep and, if so, how often.
The second part of the study will involve delivering appropriate therapy to help ease the symptoms of the condition by using a CPAP machine.
In the part of the study, hospital staff will attach the equipment to measure the patient’s brainwaves during deep sleep.
Breathing will be measured by attaching the device to the patient’s nostrils, while a microphone will be attached to the neck to monitor snoring, and a pulse oximeter will be attached to the finger to monitor oxygen levels in the blood.
Belts will be attached to the chest and abdomen to monitor breathing and movement. The legs will also be monitored for any abnormal movement.
All of which provide the data gathered throughout the night for the diagnosis.
Diagnosis through sleep study assists the doctor in determining the type of snoring the patient is experiencing, its severity — either a simple snorer or having obstructive sleep apnea.
Determining the type of snoring enables the doctor to determine the very best course of treatment.
Treatment for Snoring
Snoring and sleep apnea can be treated in many different ways, including:
Losing weight, position treatment
Using CPAP treatment to open narrow airways
Using a special device to move the tongue or jaw forward to prevent blocking the upper airways
Using a laser to vaporize the soft palate and uvula (LAUP treatment)
Surgery to remodel the tissue in the throat (UPPP Surgery)
Jaw surgery in order to widen the air passage in the throat
Acne
Acne is a skin condition that occurs when hair follicles become plugged, inflamed, or infected causing pain or leaving marks on the skin.
Causes
Acne occurs when hair follicles on the skin become blocked or clogged with skin cells or oil, causing plugs and comedones to develop.
This condition can be caused by bacteria and inflammation in the oil glands.
Acne is common in people with oily skin.
Other causes include increased male hormone levels (androgen), increased oil production, topical medications, oral medications, and skin care or cosmetic products.
Symptoms
Acne may appear as small whiteheads or blackheads.
If inflamed, a red papule may develop with pus at the tip, sometimes causing pain or leaving a scar on the skin.
Treatment Options
Acne treatment typically takes several weeks.
Treatment options include:
Medications
Topical medications such as benzoyl peroxide, vitamin A and antibiotics
Oral medications such as antibiotics and vitamin A, which should be administered under the supervision of a dermatologist
Injections such as intralesional corticosteroids
Extraction of whiteheads or blackheads to gently remove comedones and pus
Vbeam Laser for inflamed lesion or residual red area
After the acne has been treated, additional steps may be taken to reduce or diminish any scars left by the acne.
Techniques include chemical peels, dermabrasion, skin surgery and laser resurfacing.
These procedures should only be administered under the supervision of a professional dermatologist.
Prevention
It is not always possible to prevent acne completely, but you can prevent breakouts and scarring:
Gently wash your face without scrubbing.
Too much washing can irritate the skin or cause the acne to become inflamed.
Avoid touching or picking at the problem areas.
Use medications strictly as directed or according to your doctor’s advice.
Avoid too much stress and a high-carbohydrate diet.
Use oil-free and non-comedogenic cosmetic products.
Avoid direct sunlight because some medications can increase sensitivity to the sun and you may have to use sunscreen every day.
Miniopen- ALIF (Anterior Lumbar Interbody Fusion)
What is miniopen – ALIF (Anterior Lumbar interbody fusion) procedure?
ALIF is a minimally invasive treatment for patients who primarily have discogenic back pain.
The aim of this procedure is to obtain solid lumbar fusion to treat back pain by using an anterior approach (operating from the front of the spine) without disturbing or violating the back muscles, their nerves and blood supply which can lead to more back pain and leg pain.
How is it done?
Under general anesthesia and through a miniopen approach, the surgeon makes a small incision, usually on the left side of the lower abdomen, to expose the front part of the spine by going around the back of the abdominal cavity along the back wall without having to go through the abdominal cavity or cut through any of the back muscles.
After disc material is removed from the front of the spine, a synthetic cage with bone graft and screws are inserted into the empty disc space and bone to support, stabilize and create lumbar fusion, and at the same time restoring disc height and spinal alignment into its natural lumbar curvature.
Surgery usually takes about 2 to 3 hours to perform for a one or two-level procedure.
Why is it done?
Spinal disc degeneration and micro-instability of the lumbar spine can cause mechanical back pain, buttock, groin and hip pain, and nerve root irritations resulting in leg pain.
This procedure is designed to stabilize the spine by achieving higher fusion rates to relieve back pain and their associated symptoms, without interfering with nervous tissues thereby avoiding scar formation around nerve roots.
Indications for ALIF procedure
Discogenic back pain (single or multiple level, including L5/S1)
Low grade lumbar spondylolisthesis- bone slip
Spinal instability
Lumbar spondylosis
Degenerative disc disease
Failure of previous posterior lumbar fusion surgery with pseudoarthrosis
Combined with posterior procedure to enhance bone fusion
Correction of lumbar deformity
Alternatives to spine surgery
Conservative
Weight loss
Medications
Back exercises
Physical therapy and rehabilitation program
Hot/cold therapy
Acupuncture
Ultrasound therapy
Spinal traction
Interventional
Epidural steroid injections
Nucleoplasty
Facet or SI joint block
Radiofrequency treatment
Risks and complications
As with any spinal surgery, the risks include:
Bleeding from blood vessels
Nerve injury causing leg pain, weakness and numbness, or urinary and defaecation problems
Retrograde ejaculation/infertility in men
Wound Infection
Complication related to instruments
Blood clot in the legs (deep vein thrombosis), and pulmonary embolism
Anterior Cervical Discectomy and Fusion (ACDF)
What is anterior cervical discectomy and fusion surgery?
Anterior cervical discectomy and fusion (ACDF) is a procedure which allows the herniated disc and degenerative structures to be removed and followed by the fusion procedure in order to stabilize the cervical vertebrae.
Why it is done?
This procedure is used to relieve nerve root and/or spinal cord pressure and to alleviate symptoms caused by nerve compression.
How it is done?
Anterior cervical discectomy and fusion procedure is performed under general anesthesia.
The incision is around 3-cm long.
The surgeon approaches the degenerated disc from the front (anterior) of the spine through the space between neck muscles.
The disc material is then removed and the pain is relieved as the pressure is removed from the pinched nerve root.
A bone graft, which acts as a bridge to allow a new bone to grow, is then inserted into the disc space.
The surgeon then closes the incision, which usually just leaves a small scar.
In some cases, the surgeon may insert screws to stabilize the spine while the treated area heals and fusion occurs.
Advantages of anterior cervical discectomy and fusion
Minimal pain from surgery because there is no muscle damage during the surgery.
Quick recovery time
Gold standard procedure for cervical vertebrae diseases
Lower cost compared to artificial cervical disc replacement surgery
Risks and Complications
Complications in neck surgery such as this are infrequent and usually minor.
However, as with any spine surgery, there are risks, including the possibility of:
Adjacent vertebrae degeneration due to extra stress and load by fusion of spine segment
Swallowing difficulty and temporary hoarseness
Failure of bone graft healing to create a fusion
General complications of any surgery including bleeding, infection, blood clots and reaction to anesthesia
You are advised to discuss the potential risks and complications with your surgeon prior to having ACDF surgery.
However, risks from any surgery can be reduced by following the surgeon's instructions before and after the neck surgery.
Artificial Cervical Disc Replacement
Pain in and around the neck area is a common problem for many people.
If the pain extends down into the shoulder or arm, or if any weakness or numbness results, the source of the problem is often due to compression on a spinal nerve or nerve root by a herniated disc or a bone spur.
If conservative methods such as rehabilitation and over the counter medications fail, surgery may be the best option for some patients to restore function and relieve symptoms.
What is cervical disc replacement surgery?
Stated simply, cervical disc replacement surgery is a procedure where an affected, painful disc in the neck is removed and replaced with a new, artificial one.
During the procedure the surgeon can also remove any bone spurs and elongate the disc space, further relieving pressure on the nerves and nerve roots.
Generally, the surgeon will use an anterior approach to reach the cervical spine, allowing for greater visibility of the problem area.
This approach is similar to the spinal discectomy and fusion procedure.
The new artificial disc was developed to function similar to a natural disc, and thus it can to maintain close to normal mobility while also acting as a buffer between the two adjacent vertebrae.
Because these characteristics are preserved, the chance of degeneration is greatly reduced in the vertebrae above and below the surgical site.
It is important to note that cervical disc replacement surgery is relatively new and still undergoing many clinical trials to determine if there are any further, long-term benefits or risks.
Current evidence shows that cervical disc replacement surgery has just as good if not better results as the current gold standard procedure, spinal discectomy with fusion, in terms of symptom management and incidence of complications after surgery.
Spinal discectomy and fusion vs. cervical disc replacement
For many years, spinal fusion has been recognized as the gold standard surgical procedure for patients with cervical disc disease.
This surgery entails the removal of an affected, painful disc followed by the fusion of the two adjacent vertebrae with a bone graft and metal plate.
It has been shown to be very effective in relieving symptoms; however, the primary problem associated with the procedure is that the mobility of the neck is considerably reduced.
Also, there is a possibility that the levels above or below the fusion may later develop disc problems, as they must take more load and motion to compensate for the fused level.
This may require treatment or even future surgery.
Cervical disc replacement was developed to address these issues: the artificial disc provides shock absorption as well as retaining mobility in the neck.
This theoretically reduces the trauma to the adjacent vertebrae and potentially reduces the patient’s chances of future complications at other cervical levels.
The recovery time is shorter for this procedure as it eliminates the need for a bone graft, which can take 3 months to one year to solidify completely.
The surgery also allows for some flexibility.
If a patient has a cervical disc replacement, they can later remove the artificial disc and fuse the adjacent vertebrae together.
Contrarily, once a patient has undergone fusion, they cannot undergo a cervical disc replacement.
Who is a candidate for cervical disc replacement?
Most patients with cervical disc disease do not need surgery to manage their symptoms.
To be considered, candidates must demonstrate severe neck pain or severe pain, numbness, or weakness that radiates down the shoulder and arm.
In almost all cases, patients must have tried conservative treatments such as anti-inflammatory medications, physical therapy, spinal interventions, etc.
for at least 4-6 weeks without seeing significant results.
Recovery after cervical disc replacement
Recovery after a cervical disc replacement is relatively quick.
Most patients can stand and walk a few hours after the procedure, and can even return home on the same day or following morning.
There may be minimal activity restrictions for a short period of time; however, most patients return to their regular activities within a few days or weeks.
There may be some mild pain near the incision site, but this will decrease with time.
Cervical Spondylosis
Symptoms
Neck symptoms: Patients will experience chronic pain in the neck or shoulders, which may radiate to the base of the skull.
The pain usually comes and goes, and may be temporarily alleviated by massage or acupuncture.
Arm symptoms: Patients may experience pain, numbness, or muscle weakness in the arms.
These symptoms are caused by irritation of a nerve which extends to the arm from the spinal cord in the neck.
The pain can sometimes spread down the arm to the elbow, hand or fingers.
As with the pain or numbness, muscle weakness in the arms is caused by compression of the spinal cord.
Some patients seek medical advice because they have difficulty with fine movements and controlling their fingers.
Writing, playing musical instruments, fastening and unfastening buttons, etc.,
can all become difficult.
Leg symptoms: If the spinal cord is compressed, there is no pain.
However, patients will have difficulty walking, due to leg stiffness, loss of balance, and taking slow and short steps.
Some patients describe it as walking like a robot.
If left untreated, it can lead to permanent spinal cord damage and long-term disability.
Causes
Excessive bending, lifting or twisting
Incorrect sitting posture over an extended period of time
Traumatic injury to the spine caused by an accident or sport activities.
Treatment Options
Physical therapy
Steroid injections
Anterior cervical discectomy and fusion
Artificial cervical disc replacement
Endoscopic Decompression for Spinal Canal Stenosis
What is spinal canal stenosis?
When the spine deteriorates the body responds by accumulating calcium, which causes enlargement of bones and thickening of the tendons to accommodate this added weight.
This extra bone and tendon can, in some cases, lead to narrowing (stenosis) of the spinal canal, which houses a number of nerves.
These nerves can then become compressed.
Usually the nerves that branch out from the spinal canal are compressed first; if the condition becomes more severe, stenosis will occur to the spinal cord.
What are the symptoms of spinal canal stenosis?
There are three types of symptoms of spinal canal stenosis: pain, weakness, and numbness.
Pain
Pain caused by the compression of nerves will occur in the arms or legs, and may feel like an ache that travels along the path of those nerves.
Depending on which nerves are compressed, pain will be unique to those nerves.
Weakness
The nerves of the spine control movement of muscles.
Compression of these nerves causes a disruption to the electrical signals that are transmitted, leading to weakness of the muscles.
Numbness
Compression of the nerves can lead to loss of sensation on the surface of the skin to which the nerves are connected.
What many people believe is that conditions that affect the spine cause back pain, but in reality, symptoms that are more important are those that affect the limbs as these demonstrate that the nerves have been disturbed.
The symptoms of spinal canal stenosis is different from those of spinal disc herniation in that the former often occurs gradually and manifests as aching and heaviness of the legs, especially after walking a long distance or standing in one place for a long time.
Symptoms may improve when bending over or squatting, which leads to the misunderstanding that the symptoms were caused by natural fatigue caused by age rather than a spinal condition that is curable.
Treatment Options
If medication and regular physical therapy do not alleviate the symptoms of spinal canal stenosis, and the patient does not meet the criteria for surgery, steroid injections into the spinal canal may be another option.
Treatment by Endoscopic Surgery
Using a microscope, the surgeon can avoid healthy tissue to access and trim the excess bone or disc that is compressing the nerves.
Sometimes it is necessary to expand the incision to allow for a better vision field for surgery.
In endoscopic surgery the surgeon will insert an endoscope through an incision of just eight millimeters.
The lens at the tip of the endoscope is similar to the eyes of the surgeon inside the patient’s body, allowing more clarity and accuracy in detecting abnormalities.
The surgeon can then remove only the problem area without unnecessarily damaging the surrounding healthy muscle and tissue.
For spinal canal stenosis the surgeon will use a slightly larger endoscope and specially developed instruments for the most effective surgery that will allow patients to recover more quickly from the procedure.
Endoscope
An endoscope is a surgical tool that includes a camera and is “smaller than your fingertip.”
It is a small tube with a diameter of just eight millimeters, with a lens at the tip.
The lens is slightly angled for better view of surrounding organs.
Furthermore, an endoscope has fiber optics allow brighter lighting for improved vision and a small water pip.
All surgical instruments will pass through this tiny pipe, which means that the incision required will only be eight millimeters wide.
Advantages of Endoscopic Surgery
Smaller incision site
Less pain from surgery
Low risk of infection
Less damage to healthy tissue surrounding the surgical site
Quicker recovery; patient is able to return home within 24 hours
Lower cost
Spinal Endoscopic Surgery Procedure
Once the patient is under anesthesia the surgeon will insert the endoscope through an incision of eight millimeters directly to the nerves that are being compressed, without damaging any of the healthy tissue surrounding the site.
The endoscope will allow the surgeon to clearly see the nerves so they may trim only the area where the nerves are compressed, whether compression is caused by a bulging disc or constriction due to joints and tendons.
The entire procedure takes approximately 30 to 45 minutes.
The patient can walk immediately after surgery.
Indicators for Spinal Endoscopic Surgery
Generally the indicators for surgery include: unsuccessful treatment by alternative methods, chronic pain, clear weakness of the legs, or the inability to control bladder and bowel.
The Spine Institute at Bumrungrad International
The team of physicians at the Spine Institute of Bumrungrad International has received training from Dr. Sebastian Rütten (the inventor of the tools and pioneer of this type of surgery) has performed spinal endoscopic surgery on more than 600 patients in Thailand with good to excellent outcome rates of up to 95%.
Herniated Disc
Symptoms
Back and leg pain are both symptoms of a herniated disc.
Although most people think that back pain is the only symptom, leg pain is a symptom of a specific and severe type of nerve root compression.
A prolapsed disc may cause acute pain due to severe inflammation.
Back symptoms: Lower back pain can occur on one or both sides of the body, especially when sitting or bending forwards due to the amount of force placed on the discs.
Leg symptoms: Patients may experience pain, numbness or muscle weakness in the legs.
A herniated disc causes leg pain or numbness in the part of the body that is served by the affected nerve.
The pain can begin at the waist and extend to the thighs, calves, feet and toes.
As with the pain or numbness, muscle weakness in the legs is caused by compression of the spinal nerves.
Causes
Heavy or incorrect lifting
Excessive body weight
Incorrect sitting posture over an extended period of time
Traumatic injury to the spinal cord caused by an accident or sport activities.
Treatment Options
Anti-inflammatory medication or muscle relaxants to relieve pain
Physical therapy
Spinal interventions
Endoscopic lumbar discectomy
Microscopic discectomy
Laminectomy
What is Laminectomy?
Laminectomy is a procedure to remove the lamina, which is a part of the spinal canal’s bony structure.
The spine surgery is performed to relieve pressure on one or more spinal nerve roots.
This pressure, often called nerve root compression or “pinched nerve “ may be the cause of back pain and leg pain.
This may involve:
Nerve root compression may be caused by:
Ruptured disc - Also called a protruded, slipped or herniated disc
Spondylosis - Deterioration or “wear and tear” of multiple discs with bony spur formation and degenerative disc
Scar tissue
Combination of the above factors
How is this spine surgery performed?
Laminectomy is performed with the patient lying faced down after general anesthesia.
A portion of one or more vertebra is removed in order to reach the compressed nerve root(s).
Once the point of nerve root compression is located; the source of the pressure is removed.
This may involve:
Removing the ruptured portion of the disc
Removing the bony spurs and bony overgrowth
Removing the scar tissue.
The spine surgery takes approximately 1.5 to 3 hours.
Sometimes, a plastic drain is left in the wound for a few days after the operation to drain any blood that may have collected under the wound.
Post-operatively, patients are in the hospital for 4-5 days.
The patient's ability to return to normal activity is largely dependent on his/her pre-operative condition and age.
Patients are encouraged to resume walking; however, it is recommended to avoid excessive bending, lifting or twisting for six weeks in order to avoid pulling on the suture line before it heals.
Why is it done?
One of the most common reasons for laminectomy is intervertebral disc herniation.
If the herniated disc is in the lumbar region, this can cause sharp and continuing back pain, a weakening of the muscles in the leg, and some loss of sensation in the leg and foot.
It may also be difficult to raise the leg when it is held in a straight position.
A herniated disc in the neck region can cause symptoms including pain, numbness and weakness in the arm.
A herniated disc may be triggered by twisting the back while lifting something heavy.
During the spine surgery, the surgeon will attempt to relieve the pressure on nerves and nerve roots by removing the pulpy material that is protruding from the disc.
Risks & complications
Complications are infrequent and usually minor.
However, as with any spine surgery, there are risks, including the possibility of:
Nerve root damage or bowel/bladder incontinence.
Paralysis would be extremely unusual since the spinal cord stops at about the T12 or L1 level, and surgery is usually done well below this level.
The cerebrospinal fluid leak may be encountered if the dural sac is breached.
This does not change the outcome of the surgery, and generally a patient just needs to lie down for about 24 to 48 hours to allow the leak to seal.
Infections could happen; however, it generally can be managed and cured effectively.
Re-herniation of the same disk
Risks from any surgery can be reduced by following the surgeon's instructions before and after the back surgery.
Alternatives to spine surgery
The surgeon may discuss alternative approaches to the laminectomy procedure such as weight loss and use of medication to relieve pain.
Physical therapy and orthopedic braces may aid in decompressing or mobilizing the spine using non-invasive or mechanical techniques.
Candidate eligibility
The candidates for laminectomy are those who suffer from chronic pain and do not respond to medication and physical therapy.
The surgeon will make the final determination of each patient’s eligibility for the procedure after examinations and consultations with the patient.
Is a complication of mastitis that often occurs two to three weeks postpartum in breastfeeding mothers?
*A breast abscess can occur from a plugged milk duct or unrelieved engorgement, causing breast milk to become retained in the breast for a long period.
When bacteria enter the breast through cracked nipples or areola, an infection can occur.
Without appropriate care, a pus-filled abscess will form.
Symptoms
The breast is swelling, be red, feel hot, and can be very painful.
Lumps can be felt in the breast and will be painful to the touch.
Fever, chills, body aches, and may have nausea and vomiting.
Lymph nodes under the arm on the same side of the breast abscess may swell and become painful.
Treatment Seek medical attention immediately after symptoms of mastitis or breast abscess appear.
Recommendations for Self-Care
Use warm compresses before and between breastfeeding sessions to reduce pain and allow milk to flow more easily.
Use cold compresses after breastfeeding or pumping and try to empty breast milk in order to reduce pain and swelling.
If needed, take painkiller, such as paracetamol.
Continue breastfeeding.
If the pain makes breastfeeding on that side unbearable, pump milk from that breast to empty the ducts and nurse your baby with the uninfected breast.
Rest, drink plenty of fluids and eat healthy, well-balanced meals.
Microdiscectomy
What are Discectomy and Microdiscectomy (Spine Surgery)?
Discectomy is a spine procedure to remove all or part of the herniated spinal disc to relieve pressure caused by compressed spinal cords and nerves.
Microdiscectomy is a minimally invasive spine surgery using a microscope to remove fragments from herniated discs.
How is it done?
Microdiscectomy may be performed under a local anesthetic combined with intravenous sedation, which means you would be awake during the back surgery.
A general anesthetic may also be used.
A small incision (about two inches) is made between the bones of the vertebrae on the back.
The surgeon will then move the back muscles to the side.
A flexible tube containing surgical implements and a high powered telescope is used to perform the spine surgery and guide the doctor as herniated disc tissue and fragments are removed.
Why is it done?
Microdiscectomy surgery is performed to relieve leg pain or weakness (sciatica) and nerve pain and pressure resulting from herniation of the intervertebral discs which have placed pressure on surrounding nerves or have herniated into the spinal canal.
Risks & complications
Complications in back surgeries such as this are infrequent and usually minor.
However, as with any spine surgery, there are risks, including the possibility of:
Nerve root damage leading to a sensation of numbness, tingling or weakness in the legs
Tears to the protective coating around the nerves and spinal cord
Re-herniation of the same disc
Pain that persists or worsens after surgery
Reaction to the anesthesia
Risks from any surgery can be reduced by following the surgeon's instructions before and after the back surgery.
Alternatives
The surgeon may discuss alternative approaches to the microdiscectomy procedure such as weight loss, medication to relieve pain, steroids, epidural (cortisone) injections and physical therapy.
Alternative surgical procedures may be recommended.
Candidate eligibility
Candidates for Microdiscectomy are patients with herniated discs causing irritation to the nerves of the spine.
The surgeon will make the final determination of each patient’s eligibility for the procedure after an examination and consultation with the patient.
Percutaneous Transforaminal Lumbar Interbody Fusion
What is transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion?
Transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (TLIF) is a procedure that involves removing an intervertebral disc from between two vertebrae and fusing them together through key-hole incision in the back.
Traditionally, TLIF has been performed as an "open" technique with a larger midline incision at the back.
Through this incision, the surgeon cut or strip muscle and tissue to access the vertebrae and disc space which is part of the reason that after the surgery, patients are faced with a long recovery period.
Unlike the traditional TLIF procedure, our surgeons perform the TLIF by percutaneous technique with small keyhole incisions in the back.
Without needs to strip muscle out of the bone, patients will have much less pain after surgery, loss less blood during surgery and get back to normal life much faster.
Moreover, surgeons at Bumrungrad Spine Institute also combine the advantages of percutaneous TLIF with use of the advanced surgical navigation system called ‘O-arm’.
The O-arm acts like GPS device in a car.
Surgeons will see real-time high quality 3D images during surgery which resulted in more than 99% precision.
These benefits lead to a shorter hospital stay and more rapid patient recovery time.
Why it is done?
This procedure is used to achieve spinal fusion in patients who are diagnosed with severe lumbar spondylosis or spinal instability (spondylolisthesis) and to relieve symptoms.
How it is done?
The percutaneous TLIF is performed under general anesthesia.
After the patient is positioned, the O-arm will be used to create 3D images prior to the surgery.
Screws will be placed through keyhole skin incisions.
Then the degenerative structures that cause nerve compression will be removed through a small tunnel with help of microscope.
A bone graft is then inserted into the disc space and will act as a bridge until the bone is formed.
Advantages of percutaneous transforaminal interbody fusion with O-armMuch shorter hospital stay compared to the traditional technique.
Much less postoperative pain
No blood transfusion needed
More than 99% precision.
Walk within 24 hours after surgery
Risks and Complications
As with any spine surgery, there are risks, including the possibility of:
General complications of any surgery including bleeding, infection, blood clots and reaction to anesthesia
Adjacent segments degeneration syndrome
You are advised to discuss the potential risks and complications with your surgeon prior to having TLIF surgery.
However, risks from any surgery can be reduced by following the surgeon's instructions before and after the back surgery.
Spinal Cord Injuries (Spinal fractures)
A spinal fracture is different from a fracture of the limbs, because the spine is the location of both the spinal cord and spinal nerves.
Spinal cord injuries can be a result of lesser injuries to the ligaments or tendons, meninges (spinal membrane), spinal fractures, compressions, dislocations, and also nervous system injuries, which can in some cases cause paralysis.
Causes
Symptoms
Diagnosis
Treatment
Causes
Spinal cord injuries can be caused by many factors, such as road accidents (45%), falls from high places (20%), sports injuries (15%), violence (15%), and other activities (5%).
Osteoporosis and spinal tumors can also cause spinal fractures.
These conditions account for 80% of spinal fractures in patients between the ages of 18-25 years.
As such, males are approximately four times more likely than females to experience spinal fractures.
Symptoms
Symptoms will depend on the severity and location of the spinal cord injury.
Individuals who present with spinal cord injuries may experience neck pain, back pain, or pain in other affected areas, as well as lack of sensation (numbness), muscle tension, fatigue, and incontinence.
Some people can also experience paralysis, which indicates an injury to both the nervous system and spinal cord.
Diagnosis
Patients who have been involved in serious accidents, and present with the symptoms listed above, will need to be cautious with their range of movement, and will also require extra physical support such as wearing a back brace.
After conducting a comprehensive physical examination of the patient, the doctor will issue a suitable diagnosis and treatment plan, such as a CT or MRI scan.
An MRI scan is usually required in cases of suspected nervous system or spinal cord injury.
Treatment
Treatment will begin with the doctor prescribing medication for reducing pain, and protecting the injury from further damage with a back brace.
The patient may also be required to wear a padded halo vest and a neck brace, and, in some cases undergo surgery, depending on the severity and type of injury.
Wearing a back brace
A back brace is responsible for:
Supporting the spine at the point of injury.
Reducing the movement of the spine during recovery.
Reducing pain caused by movement of the spine.
For patients who suffer spinal fractures, or injuries which lead to loss of movement or nervous system injuries, a back brace must be worn for 8-12 weeks, or until the damaged vertebrae are healed.
Such patients must also undergo physiotherapy.
Discectomy and/or spinal fusion surgery
In cases of spinal fractures which result in instability or dislocation of the vertebrae, treatment will be required to stabilize the spine.
This may involve restructuring of the vertebrae, rearranging the vertebrae to fit their original positions, or fusing the damaged spine joints together.
Restructuring the spine will also help to reduce pain and will help the nervous system to recover more effectively.
Additionally, for patients with spinal fractures, a neck pillow will help to reduce pressure on the spinal nerves, as will surgery when complete.
Vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty
Vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty are used in cases where the vertebrae have been compressed due to osteoporosis or certain types of tumor.
Vertebroplasty is an injection of cement into the compressed vertebrae, while kyphoplasty is a method of raising the compressed vertebrae with a balloon prior to a cement injection.
Spinal Fusion
What is Spinal Fusion (Spine Surgery)?
Spinal fusion is a surgical technique used to combine two or more vertebrae.
This spine procedure is used primarily to eliminate the pain caused by abnormal motion of the vertebrae by immobilizing the vertebrae themselves.
Why is Spinal Fusion done?
Spinal fusion is done most commonly in the lumbar (lower back) region of the spine, but it is also used to treat cervical and thoracic problems.
Patients requiring spinal fusion have either neurological deficits or severe pain which has not responded to conservative treatment.
Conditions requiring spinal fusion may be:
degenerative disc disease
discogenic pain
spinal tumor
vertebral fracture
scoliosis
kyphosis
spondylolisthesis
spondylosis
other degenerative spinal conditions
any condition that causes instability of the spine
How is it done?
In most cases, the fusion is augmented by a process called fixation, meaning the placement of metallic screws (pedicle screws often made from titanium), rods or plates, or cages to stabilize the vertebra to facilitate bone fusion.
The fusion process typically takes 6-12 months after surgery.
During this time external bracing (orthotics) may be required.
External factors such as smoking, osteoporosis, certain medications, and heavy activity can prolong or even prevent the fusion process.
If fusion does not occur, patients may require re-operation.
Risks & Complications
Injury to the spinal cord is rare, resulting in less than one per cent of all cases.
However, as with any spine surgery, there are risks, including the possibility of:
Bleeding occurring after surgery
Infection requiring antibiotics
Instrumentation problems- loosening of instruments after surgery
Blood Clots
Anesthetic Complications
Alternatives to spine surgery
The surgeon may discuss alternative approaches to spinal fusion such as weight loss and use of medication to relieve pain.
Physical therapy and orthopedic braces may aid in decompressing or mobilizing the spine using non-invasive or mechanical techniques.
Convalescence
After the surgery some may experience back pain and will have to use a brace.
Surgery in adults tends to be lengthier and also recovery seems to be longer than in children.
Candidate eligibility
The surgeon will make the final determination of each patient’s eligibility for this back surgery after an examination and consultation with the patient.
Spinal Stenosis
Symptoms
As with a herniated disc, spinal stenosis can cause back and leg pain, although the symptoms develop gradually, usually over several months or years.
Back symptoms: The patient experiences chronic back pain, usually at the waist, and especially when standing, walking or leaning backwards.
Leg symptoms: Patients may experience pain, numbness, or muscle weakness in the legs.
The most common symptom is an ache or heaviness in the legs together with numbness, or a tingling feeling, like ants crawling on the legs.
This happens after walking or standing for a long period of time, and will gradually disappear after sitting down or leaning forward.
This is because the nerve compression is worse when the spine is extended backward.
A patient with spinal stenosis cannot walk for a long period of time, such as when shopping, and they will have to sit down from time to time.
In extreme cases, some patients cannot stand long enough to take a shower or brush their teeth.
Causes
Spinal stenosis is attributed to degenerative changes of the discs, ligaments and facet joints surrounding the lumbar canal.
Wear and tear on parts of the spine can cause discs to bulge, ligaments to thicken, and joints to become enlarged because the body responds by trying to re-stabilize the back.
All these changes cause the spinal canal to become narrower and the nerves to become more compressed, resulting in muscle weakness.
Treatment Options
Anti-inflammatory medication or muscle relaxants to relieve pain
Physical therapy
Spinal Interventions
Endoscopic decompression
Microscopic decompression
Spondylolisthesis
Symptoms
Back symptoms: A patient with spondylolisthesis may experience chronic back pain, especially when the spine is moved, such as when bending, lifting, or walking.
Leg symptoms: The patient may experience pain, numbness or a feeling of heaviness in the thighs and buttocks, especially when walking.
However, these symptoms will alleviate after sitting down or leaning forward.
Patient will notice a slow decrease in the distances they are able to walk.
Severe compression of the nerves can also cause loss of control of bowel or bladder functions.
Causes
Degenerative changes in the spine or a congenital defective joint
Injury to the pars interarticularis (a portion of the lumbar spine)
Injury to the spine caused by an accident or sport activities
Treatment Options
Spinal fusion
Percutaneous TLIF
Vertebroplasty and Kyphoplasty
What are vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty?
Vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty are minimally invasive procedures for the treatment of vertebral compression fractures (VCF), which are fractures of the vertebrae, the bones that make up the spinal column.
These procedures involve the injection of a bone cement to immobilize bone fragments and reduce pain immediately.
Kyphoplasty may help restore the spine to a more normal alignment and prevent severe kyphotic (“hunchback”) deformity to the spine.
In someone who has had multiple fractures with previous wedging, kyphoplasty can prevent worsening of the deformity.
How is it done?
Vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty are similar procedures.
Both are performed using a hollow needle that is passed through the skin of your back into the fractured vertebra, using an x-ray machine to assist correct placement.
In vertebroplasty bone cement called polymethylmethacrylate is injected through the needle into the fractured bone.
In kyphoplasty a balloon is first inserted and inflated to expand the compressed vertebra to its normal height before the space is filled with bone cement.
The procedures are repeated for each affected vertebra.
The cement-strengthened vertebra allows patients to stand straight, reduces their pain, and prevents further fractures.
Potential benefits of vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty include:
Short surgical time
Only light general anesthesia or local anesthesia required.
Average hospital stay is one day (or less).
Patients can quickly return to their normal activities.
No bracing required.
Alternatives treatment
The surgeon may discuss alternative approaches to the vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty procedures, such as weight loss and use of medication to relieve pain.
Physical therapy and orthopedic braces may aid in decompressing or mobilizing the spine through non-invasive or mechanical techniques.
Risks and potential complications
General complications of any surgery include bleeding, infection, blood clots, and reactions to anesthesia.
The following are specific risks that should be considered.
Cement leakage.
Nerve damage
New vertebral fractures.
Residual pain.
Who is eligible for vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty?
Vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty are generally reserved for people with painful progressive back pain secondary to osteoporotic or pathologic vertebral compression fractures.
Candidates for these procedures often experience significant decreases in mobility and function as a result of the fractures.
Cervical Cancer
Cervical cancer is second only to breast cancer as the most common form of cancer among women in Thailand (Statistics of the National Cancer Institute, 2010) and claims the lives of many women every day.
Important Facts You Should Know About the Human Papilloma Virus (HPV)
Sexually active women will likely be infected with the Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) at some point in their lives.
However, in more than 90 percent of cases, the infection will disappear on its own within 1-2 years without causing any further symptoms or disease.
Use of a condom during sexual intercourse will help to prevent infection, but not in all cases.
Even those with only one sexual partner still have a chance of being infected.
Therefore, regular screening for HPV is important.
The Main Cause of Cervical Cancer
The Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) is the main cause of cervical cancer, especially the “high-risk” HPV.
It has been found that HPV types 16 and 18 are the two HPV types found in the majority of cervical cancer cases.
Of these, HPV-16 is the most common and was found in approximately 50-55 percent of cases, while HPV-18 was found in about 15-20 percent of cases.
Medical data also shows that HPV-18 is found most frequently in cancer of the glandular cells (adenocarcinoma), which is likely to become more common as well.
Adenocarcinoma has a high chance of misdiagnosis on the basis of a Pap smear screening alone.
Currently, the ASCCP (American Society of Colposcopy and Cervical Pathology) in the U.S.A. recommends co-testing using the Pap test and HPV test for the detection of cervical cancer in women aged 30 years and older, which will help to further increase testing accuracy.
Benefits of Pap and HPV Co-testing
HPV and Pap smear co-testing for cervical cancer screening now holds greater clinical significance due to research data findings which show that establishing Pap cytology and HPV co-testing together improves accuracy in the detection of pre-cancer and cancer of the cervix.
Co-testing results in greater certainty and less ambiguity with almost 100% accuracy, as patients with a negative high-risk HPV test (especially HPV type 16 and type 18) and normal Pap test results have a very low chance of getting cervical cancer in the few years following the test and can, with confidence, wait another 3 years before being tested again.
Co-testing also provides far more accurate information to physicians in assessing the risk of cervical cancer, as screening results for specific HPV types found can help doctors in treatment planning and monitoring results more effectively.
Specimen Collection Method for Cervical Cancer Diagnosis
Diagnosis of cervical cancer involves the collection of cell samples from the cervix.
To do this, the doctor will use a small spatula, swab, or soft cervical brush to gently collect cells from the patient’s cervix.
The sample is then transferred to a bottle of liquid solution to preserve the cells, and then sent to a lab for the final step of HPV and Pap smear testing for abnormalities.
Intensive Care for Newborn Babies
The Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) at Bumrungrad Hospital administers specialized care for premature and sick newborn babies.
Working with the most advanced technology, a team of specially trained medical experts and nurses is on hand to provide babies in need with intensive care to the highest standards of care and safety 24 hours a day.
Babies in Need of Specialized Care
The Neonatal Intensive Care Unit provides specialized care to newborn babies with the following conditions:
Premature babies (born before 34 weeks)
Low birth weight babies ( less than 2,200 grams)
Twins, triplets or other multiple births
Newborn babies with the following conditions:
Respiratory disorders
Cardiovascular disorders
Digestive disorders
Neurological disorders
Bowel movement problems
Birth defects
Infections
Low blood sugar level
Critical conditions
Medical Professionals
Premature and sick newborn babies require the most expert care in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit at Bumrungrad Hospital.
Our team of specially trained medical professionals is comprised of:
Neonatal specialists in the care of babies during pregnancy and after delivery
Obstetricians
Pediatricians
Professional nurses, including nurses trained in neonatal critical care
Nurses and coordinators at our Perinatal Center
Breastfeeding Nurses
Pharmacists
The team of medical professionals in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit works together with parents to develop the best treatment plan.
Medical Equipment and Supplies
To ensure that we provide the safest and most specialized care for newborn babies, the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit at Bumrungrad Hospital is equipped with advanced medical technology, including:
Respirator
High frequency ventilation for respiratory failure that helps improve gas exchange
Cardiac monitor
Radiant warmer that helps maintain the body temperature of newborn babies
Transport incubator
Cardiopulmonary monitor
Infusion pump
Phototherapy
Services
Care for newborn babies.
Inbound transfer of babies aged not over 1 month from other hospitals and intensive care units
Advice about caring and breastfeeding
Menopause
Menopause is the next big change in a women’s life after passing through the adolescence and reproductive stages.
During this last and important change, learning how to handle the changes will allow you to have a better quality of life, physically and mentally, and to feel more comfortable during daily activities.
What is Menopause?
For most women, menopause starts between 45 – 55 years old.
When a woman's body enters this stage the ovaries decline and stop functioning, thus no ovulation occurs.
A woman’s period will ultimately stop, with no female hormones produced, leading to physical and mental changes.
The missing hormones causing this change are estrogen and progesterone.
Symptoms of Menopause
Shorter duration and lighter menstrual bleeding.
Hot flashes - especially on the upper part of the body, hot flashes usually manifest in ways such as: fatigue, palpitation, night sweating.
Some experience shivering without known cause
Skin: Thinning of skin, scratches easily, itchy skin, and skin rash.
Hair: Dry hair,thinning of hair, hair loss, hair does not look shiny anymore.
Muscle, joint or bone pain.
Mood swings: Easily becomes stressed and frustrated without reason, easily upset, unable to control mood, forgetful, dizzy, depressed.
Difficulty sleeping.
Vaginal dryness, pain during intercourse.
Frequent urination, incontinence.
Thinning of bones, fracturing easily.
Self Care During Menopausal Period
Food: Menopausal women should eat a balanced diet, and eat high calcium foods such as yoghurt, beans, tofu, black sesame, fish, green leaf vegetables, etc.
Calcium helps strengthen bones in order to prevent osteoporosis.
try to control cholesterol by avoiding food with high fat content and eat foods that are easy to digest.
Regular exercise: This includes walking, jogging, dancing, aerobics, etc.
Mood control: Positive thinking, try to be lively.
Regular check up (at least once a year): Blood pressure, cholesterol, pap smear, mammography, bone mineral density, and hormone levels.
Consult Your Doctor About Hormone Replacement
In case a menopausal woman has many of the above symptoms or conditions (especially osteoporosis) and needs hormone replacement, a doctor will make the decision about what hormones are necessary for the patient.
﻿Transferring files from PC to PC can be done quickly and securely without losing any data in the process.
There's nothing more exciting than getting a powerful new computer that lets you zip through tasks, run new applications, and play games at astounding speed.
However, there's nothing more daunting than realizing you have to move all your music, pictures, documents, and other files from your old computer to the new computer.
Fortunately, you don't have to beg and bribe your friends to help with this moving day.
There are a variety of ways to easily and safely share files and even move programs from your old computer to your new one while keeping your data safe.
DIY Approach: Manually Transfer Files
If you're a hands-on sort, one of the simplest ways to get your new computer loaded with all your files is to manually move them.
There are a couple of ways to do this.
For starters, plug your old computer into a USB flash drive or external hard drive, which typically can cost from $30 to several hundred dollars depending on the storage amount, speed, and functionality you need.
Simply copy your files onto the external drive, unplug the computer, and then plug the storage device into the new computer and reverse the process to load the files onto it.
Tip: Some computers have eSATA ports that are specifically designed for external hard drives and move data even faster than USB ports.
If you don't want to purchase an external hard drive, you can also move and store your files into the cloud—using an Internet-based storage service such as Microsoft OneDrive*, Google Drive*, or Dropbox*.
Again, just drop and drag your files from your old computer to the cloud service, and then drag-and-drop the files onto your new computer.
These services are often free for a small amount of storage, and then charge a monthly subscription as your storage needs increase.
Speed Things Along: Use a Transfer Cable
If you find using cloud storage to be a time drag, or if you want to avoid a monthly subscription to cloud services, an alternative option is to move your files with a transfer cable.
The cable plugs into a port on both your new computer and old computer.
Typically, cables come with software that automates the transfer of files when upgrading from an older Windows® 10, 8.1, 8, 7, Vista, or XP computer to a newer computer.
A transfer cable works faster than an external hard drive, since the old computer connects directly to the new one while eliminating the middleman (the external drive).
Hire a (PC) Mover: Use Do-It-All Software
Earlier versions of Windows provided a service called Easy Transfer* that allowed users to easily move files between computers.
Unfortunately, that was scrapped with Windows® 10.
Have no fear, though: Microsoft's partnered up with vendor Laplink PC Mover* to duplicate the functionality offered by Easy Transfer.
The vendor's PCMover Express* transfers data and settings from computers running Windows* XP to computers running Windows* 8.1 or later.
The service costs about $15.
PC Mover Professional costs more, but it also allows you to move your applications.
If you have problems, both services offer 24-7 assistance.
This approach requires a fee, but it automates the processes and can guide you to ensure you don’t overlook files that might be placed in an unfamiliar place on your old computer.
Sundry Operating Systems: Transfer Files from Mac to PC or PC to Mac
You can manually transfer files between Mac and PCs in the same way that you move them between PCs with external drives, cloud services, or home networks.
Or you can let the computer itself do the job of personal assistant in charge of moving and file sharing:
The Mac OS X Lion and later operating system provides a nifty tool called Migration Assistant that transfers your contacts, calendars, email accounts, and more from a PC and puts these files in the appropriate places on your new Mac.
Clean Sweep: Keep Your Old Data Out of the Wrong Hands
After you move your files, you should keep your old computer for at least a couple of weeks in case you overlooked any files.
However, if you sell, discard, or give away your old computer, make sure all your data and personal information are removed.
Simply transferring the files doesn't do that.
Even deleting the files or reformatting the disk can still allow experts to retrieve information you don't want them to have, such as your bank information or old emails.
Fortunately, free data destruction programs, like Darik's Boot And Nuke (DBAN), can erase everything on your old computer, ensuring you leave no (data) trace behind.
Stay Protected: Back Up the New Stuff
Now that you've gotten used to moving files off your old PC, it's a good time to make sure you have an ongoing backup system in place in case you have to restore those files again.
Windows* 8 and above provides a handy feature called File History that allows you to automatically and routinely back up files to an external hard drive.
This feature ensures your data won’t be history if the worst happens.
If you own a Mac, you have a variety of choices and platforms for backing up your data, from the iCloud to programs like Time Machine, depending on what version of OS X you’re running.
Remember: While there are plenty of easy ways to move and share data, you can only move the data you can access, so make sure your documents, photos, and other precious data remain protected even if your computer becomes lost or damaged.
It’s easy to do automatically, and it ensures your next (computer) moving day will go more smoothly.
Tablet vs. laptop used to be about portability.
2 in 1 laptops that combine aspects of both tablets and laptops, make the choice more about finding a device that’s compatible with you.
Now that Microsoft Windows* 10 and Windows* 10 Pro are here to make our lives—as well as apps, music, and movies—more streamlined, fun, and accessible, you’ll want the right device to support your lifestyle.
The device you choose to run the newest operating system is an important decision.
Tablet: A Fresh View on Fun
Today’s tablets with Windows* 10 keep you up to speed by running all your favorite apps.
And with scores of popular apps in the Windows Store*, you can play more games, listen to your favorite music, and quickly access the news and weather you want… whenever, wherever you want.
Use your tablet to read a book, browse through a magazine, watch a movie in 3-D, and stay in touch with friends through a social network.
And with improved battery life and an integrated graphics engine, you can enjoy all those activities for longer and with better visuals.
Check out all tablets powered by Intel.
For business, communications, or entertainment, these tablets deliver performance, speed, and agility users expect with exceptional battery life, and built-in security.
Laptop: Performance to Go
If you’re worried about damaging a tablet and you want the use of a firmly attached keyboard to create and edit documents and other data, then a laptop may be the computer for you.
Powered by long-life batteries and Intel® Core™ processors, laptops deliver ideal performance and energy efficiency.
They adapt to your needs by smoothly running multiple programs or apps, allowing you to work on a report or spreadsheet at your local bistro while keeping an eye on your social networks.
And, when not in use, laptops automatically shut down unused cores for efficient power usage.
See for yourself the outstanding visuals and performance Intel laptops offer.
And don’t forget to compare Intel® Core™ processors to find the level of performance you need.
2 in 1: Best of Both Devices
The device inspired by Intel, the convertible 2 in 1, helps end the laptop vs. tablet debate.
With a range of screen options to choose from, you can fold over, flip, slide, or swivel its touch sensitive screen to have a tablet experience.
Then, quicker than you can find Wi-Fi at a coffee shop, you can return the screen to its original position to enjoy a laptop experience.
Enhance your devices with Intel® Wireless-AC to keep you updated on all your emails and social networks.
Thanks to digital audio workstation software, the right laptop can make or record professional-quality music tracks1.
Whether you’re recording bass guitar or hip-hop or a classical quartet, you can now produce practically any kind of music on a laptop computer.
But while any laptop can be used to produce music on some level, the more serious your ambitions, the more selective you need to be when choosing a laptop for music production.
First, let’s figure out what you’re going to do with music on this laptop, then we’ll run down the basic options and identify the most important software and peripherals.
Recording, Producing/Composing, or Performing?
Musicians use laptops in different ways.
Many employ a traditional approach, recording tracks from microphones and instruments, then mixing them to create the final product.
Hip-hop, pop, and EDM musicians typically use the laptop itself to produce most of the actual sounds—programming the sounds into a sequencer or playing them on a MIDI keyboard or touchpads connected to the laptop.
But they still record vocals and some other sounds using microphones, and mix those with computer-generated audio and often with snippets of other artists’ recordings.
DJs typically do all of the above and also use the laptop as a performance device, often triggering everything with a controller that has touchpads and a couple of turntable-style discs for scratching.
All of these applications use software packages called digital audio workstations, or DAWs.
Some DAWs are targeted more at recording, others more at generating music in the laptop itself.
Here’s a great guide to selecting a DAW.
The folk singer/songwriter who wants to carry a laptop with her on the subway to record gigs in Brooklyn has different needs than the producer who wants to put together hip-hop beats in his home studio in Atlanta.
So the first step should be deciding what your work requires.
Is portability important?
Are your productions going to be fairly simple or complex?
Is your laptop going to be used in a music live performance?
Screen Size
The screen is important because it determines the size of your visual workspace.
The more complex your productions, the more workspace you need.
Almost any laptop screen will let you monitor 6 to 10 tracks of music comfortably, but managing 30 tracks is nearly impossible on a small screen.
Smaller screens (10–13” diagonally) will nestle easily in backpacks.
For basic recording and mixing, a small display is fine.
Midsized laptops (14–16”) generally represent a balance between portability and performance.
Large laptops (17–18”) are great for music producers who need to monitor dozens of tracks at once, which is the norm with hip-hop, pop, and EDM productions.
Mobility
If you’re planning to use your laptop for live recording or performing, a smaller model is usually a better choice because it’s easier to carry and takes up less space on stage.
Another consideration in these applications is battery life.
This isn’t important in homes or clubs where there’s an outlet nearby, but might be vital for mobile recording.
Also, if you’re planning to use your laptop for a performance or to record in clubs, it’s a good idea to choose a model with a backlit keyboard.
Mac or Windows?
MacBooks are fast and reliable, yet there are some equally powerful Windows laptops, typically at more affordable prices.
This choice depends mainly on two factors: your budget and which software you prefer to use.
Note that professional music studios tend to use Macs, so if you plan to work in conjunction with pro studios—recording a few tracks in a large room, perhaps, or hiring a pro to mix or master your recording—a Mac might be a safer choice, although audio files from Windows machines can be transferred to Mac OS and vice-versa.
More information can be found in our PC vs Mac article ›
Processor
Music production can put a heavy load on a CPU, or processor, which is the heart of any computer.
Get the best, most capable processor within your budget because it’s rarely possible to upgrade it later.
The more complicated your productions, the more the CPU matters.
Mixing a tune with 30 tracks, multiple sampled instruments, and lots of digital audio effects demands a powerful computer.
There are two measures of processor performance to keep in mind.
One is the number of cores.
Each core can process data independently, so adding cores dramatically increases processing power.
A quad-core processor is the best choice for music production.
The other measure is clock speed, which typically runs from about 2.4 to 4.2 GHz.
The faster the better.
Typically, a more compact laptop will have a less-powerful processor, but that’s not always true.
RAM
RAM, or random-access memory, stores programs and data temporarily when your computer is on.
The more complex the program, the more RAM it requires.
For music production, you need at least 8 GB and preferably 16 GB of RAM, especially if you’re working with a lot of recorded tracks and/or virtual instruments, or applying multiple effects to your tracks.
Luckily, RAM is one of the more upgradeable components of a computer, but every laptop has its limits.
It’s best to choose one that can accommodate at least 16 GB of RAM.
Storage: HDD or SSD?
Audio files take up a lot of storage space: Just one complicated tune can easily fill 1 GB.
This is why it’s a good idea to have at least 1TB of available storage.
How that storage is arranged is a different issue.
Your options are a conventional hard drive (HDD) that relies on one or more internal spinning discs, a solid-state drive (SSD) with no moving parts, or an external HDD, which connects to your laptop through USB.
An SSD can read and write data much faster than an HDD and it’s quieter and more reliable.
However, an SSD is typically about five times as costly per GB as an HDD.
One solution, if your laptop permits it, is to have a 128 or 256 GB SSD plus a 1TB HDD.
This way, boot-up and loading of programs from the SSD are ultra-fast, and you have plenty of storage for music files on the HDD.
Another solution is to keep your music files—or at least your archived ones—on an external HDD.
This method adds complexity, but it lets you add more storage when you need it, and it does let you opt for a smaller, slimmer computer.
Ports
To interface a laptop with microphones, instruments, and other audio gear, you’ll need an audio interface, which will connect to the laptop through a USB port.
If you’re producing music directly on the laptop, you’ll also use USB to connect a keyboard, MIDI pads (for tapping out rhythms), and DJ controllers.
Many music pros like to use control surfaces, which provide a physical interface much like a mixing board, instead of controlling their recording and audio mixing using a mouse.
Laptops come with at least two USB ports, but obviously you may want more, especially if you want to connect peripherals such as a wired keyboard or mouse, or an external hard drive.
Any computer’s USB ports can be augmented by connecting a USB hub, but for portable users, that will be one more piece of gear to carry.
Speakers/headphone jacks
Surprisingly, these features don’t matter much in a laptop used for music production.
The speakers built into laptops are very low-quality devices that are only there for situations where you have nothing else to listen through.
Nothing will sound good through them, and if you try to tailor your mixes to sound good through them, the music will probably sound strange when played on good speakers.
You can use the headphone jack built into the laptop, but in most laptops, the amplifier connected to the headphone jack is of low quality and may throw off the sound of your headphones a bit.
Fortunately, most audio interfaces have headphone jacks as well as connections that allow you to hook up a set of high-quality powered monitor speakers that will let you do great-sounding mixes.
Because isn’t it a little crazy to invest hours in choosing the right laptop, and hundreds of hours in producing a piece of music, only to listen to it through poor-quality speakers?
Final Tracks
Once you’ve chosen the laptop, audio interface, and the DAW software that’s best for your needs, you’ll be ready to create studio-quality music productions.
In fact, a lot of the music you hear on the radio is created using nothing more.
All you need to add is your own creativity and imagination.
Choosing which laptop is best for video editing starts with understanding your current and future needs and considering the best options in your target price range.
Diving into video editing for the first time?
Trying to figure out which is the best laptop for video editing?
Here’s some advice.
Don’t begin with the laptop, begin with you.
Before you even start looking into microprocessor clock speeds, internal vs external memory, and all the other specifications with which you can compare one laptop to another.
Analyze your specifications.
What kind of video will you be editing?
What finished product do you want?
If you’re shooting a documentary for the Sundance Film Festival*, that’s one set of requirements.
Documenting your daughter’s first swimming lesson and editing out the bit where your thumb was the star of the show?
Now, that leads to different prerequisites.
What Do You Really Need?
You should think about your upcoming video editing projects first for one simple reason: Cost.
Higher-end specifications, such as high-resolution screens, fast processing speeds, and larger memory capacity may be preferable, but they are also more expensive.
If you think ahead, you can buy what you need now and plan for future expansion.
Here are some specific areas to consider:
Your content.
Your laptop choice will be heavily influenced by the video you want to produce.
For example, if you’re making social videos to promote your business, you’ll want the ability to create text overlay on some clips.
Sophisticated audio editing capabilities and good speakers will make a big difference when editing footage from your band’s latest gig.
Art projects, on the other hand, place a premium on accurate color representation at high resolution.
How you plan to work.
Will you be working under time pressures?
Then speed matters most.
If you’re constantly on the road, you may find weight and battery life to be more important.
External gear, such as a monitor, input device, or extra storage, has to plug into your video editing laptop.
You have to make sure your choice has the right kind—e.g., HDMI—and number of inputs.
Software.
Your editing experience depends on matching the software you need to the hardware it requires.
Not all software runs on all laptops.
Consider your video editing software preferences before you’ve made any hardware choices.
Navigating Specifications
With your needs in hand, you can start shopping.
You’ll face a bewildering array of specifications.
The tests used to create these specifications are not only complicated, but often controversial.
Finding the best laptop for video editing isn’t about specs; it’s about fit.
Keep that in mind as you peruse the specs.
Processor
Speed is your friend when it comes to processors for video editing.
Figuring out what is actually fastest is not as simple as comparing the 0-60 times for cars.
Deciding which processor is best means deciphering how much processor design matters to your work.
Do you need a six core?
A quad core?
Or will a dual core meet your needs?
What about hyper-threading?
Even if you don’t want to get into that level of detail, here’s easy shorthand to follow: The higher the processor clock rate in any given processor family, the better.
Right now, the clock rate for top candidates ranges from roughly 2.8 GHz to 3.6 GHz, but the numbers change on a regular basis.
RAM (Random Access Memory)
RAM is important because it’s the place where your CPU goes to get the data it uses to make your video edits.
The faster that data exchange happens, the faster you can edit.
Most experts agree that you need a minimum of 12 GB, and 16 GB is better.
Also, there are three types of RAM—SDRAM, DDR, and DRAM.
SDRAM is the oldest technology, and it will slow you down.
Finally, systems may have one, two, or three channels connecting RAM to the CPU.
Three is obviously the fastest, but tests related to gaming (which has similar challenges to editing) indicate that the number of channels doesn’t have a big effect.
And again, the sheer amount of RAM far outweighs other considerations.
One caveat.
Don’t assume you’ll be able to upgrade the amount of RAM down the road.
Some laptops allow this, but some don’t.
Graphics Card
Unless you’re planning to do only very low-end video editing, you’ll want a laptop with a graphics card.
For technical reasons, systems for even mid-level editing offload graphics processing from the CPU to a graphics card with a GPU (graphics processing unit).
You should avoid any laptop that doesn't take this approach.
It will be too slow.
Beyond that, be aware that some video editing software programs recommend (or even require) a specific graphics card or range of cards within a brand, and some graphics cards are only compatible with certain CPUs.
It pays to check this out.
The key top-level specifications for graphics cards are GPU clock speed and frames per second (FPS) per dollar.
However, graphics cards are very complicated and these specs need to be taken in context of the whole laptop.
For example, a slow CPU will bog down any graphics card, no matter how fast that card may be.
Ports
Laptops for video editing vary significantly in the number and types of ports they have for external devices like a monitor or a hard drive.
It is very important to think ahead about what items you’ll need or may need down the road, because if there’s no port for them, you’re out of luck.
Audio
If your content involves music or important ambient sound, accurately hearing what you’ve got is obviously important.
The speakers in some laptops are dramatically better than others.
You don’t need specifications to evaluate them; your ears will do just fine.
Many editors prefer to listen with headphones, which are nearly always superior to laptop speakers.
For videos where audio is primary, consider adding external reference speakers.
Storage
As a rule of thumb, you’ll need about twice as much hard drive capacity as the size of your source file—even three times more if you’re doing anything fancy, like lots of special effects.
But don’t forget, you not only need to store source files for editing, you have to store the finished video as well.
Video files take up a lot of room; 500 GB is probably the minimum, and 1 TB is an even safer bet.
Luckily, you don’t have to depend solely on the storage available inside your laptop.
External hard drives can help maximize storage capacity while keeping costs in line.
For the hard drive itself, you can choose between standard hard drives (HDD) with spinning discs, and solid state drives (SSD), which are faster and have no moving parts.
SSDs, however, are more expensive.
A hybrid solution can give you the best of both worlds: A fast onboard SSD to handle working files with and a large external HDD for storage.
You also have to think about the interface between an external hard drive and your laptop.
You don’t want to be put on hold every few minutes while you wait for a file to transfer.
There are several options, ranging from a low of 6 Gbps (USB 3.1) to a high of 40 Gbps.
(Thunderbolt™).
The more files you’re going to be pulling up from your hard drive, the more important this number becomes.
LCD Panel
There are three types of LCD panels, and the type you choose makes a big difference.
TN (Twisted Nematic) panels are common and cheap, but you get what you pay for—a bad choice for video editing
IPS (In-Plane Switching) panels are the preferable choice
IGZO (Indium-Gallium-Zinc Oxide) are rare, expensive, and the highest quality option for the professional videographer
Resolution
Resolution is a fairly straightforward specification with several levels available, all defined by the width by height (WxH) in pixels.
The most common are:
High Definition: 1920x1080.
This is also known as full high definition (FHD) or 1080p
Apple Retina*: 2880x1800
4K: 3840x2160.
This is sometimes referred to as Ultra High Definition or UDF
The majority of laptops have much lower resolution than the 1920x1080 that most videographers would agree is the low end of acceptability.
Color Fidelity
There are several scientific definitions of the “color space” offered by laptop screens, but it’s easiest to think of it this way: The color space is the number of different colors a monitor can display.
The most common is sRGB, (standard Red, Green, Blue) although Adobe RGB* runs a close second.
Manufacturers often express color fidelity as a percentage of sRGB, and it’s usually over 100% because sRGB doesn’t cover all the colors the eye can perceive.
Looking into the Future
One thing is certain about the future of video editing: The files are going to get bigger.
With 4K cameras becoming more common, and virtual reality on the way, when it comes to capacity and processing power, today’s luxury will be tomorrow’s necessity.
Find a laptop that allows you to realize the full potential of your photo editing software.
Skilled photographers and professional graphic designers know that only part of their work is completed when a picture is taken – creating compelling images inevitably requires at least some time at a computer with photo-editing software.
Hardly anyone, including amateur shutterbugs using their smartphones, presents their images to the world completely unadorned.
But it’s really in the hands of upper-echelon creative professionals that editing software sings.
Imperfections that strip images of their power and reality can be corrected.
Unique elements can be added that provide otherworldly qualities that change the way people react to an image of a person, place or thing.
No matter what your goals, the most advanced photo-editing software can only attain its full creative potential when teamed with the appropriate hardware.
There is a plethora of editing software available, and you must weigh a number of considerations in selecting among many good options.
In the same way, hardware choices have expanded dramatically, requiring photographers and graphic artists to consider functionality and desired effects when choosing the device they’ll edit upon.
Desktops Edge Over Laptops Disappear
Even people who have been using photo editing software for a relatively short time probably remember a time when desktop computers were the only option for serious craftspeople.
Today, however, new laptop models boast speed and storage that rival high-end desktops, suiting those whose editing work must be done in the field, at multiple locations, or taken to clients or colleagues.
Built-in high-resolution screens up to Ultra HD 4K provide stunning color, contrast and detail that discerning photo editors require.
In short, modern laptops have all the advantages of heavy-duty desktop photo editing in a lightweight package weighing only 3-4 pounds.
Laptops Provide More Capabilities Than Tablets
As desktop computers become less common, laptops can seem a no-brainer choice for graphic artists and photographers.
It’s a different case when considering tablets.
While the line between high-end tablets and laptops is blurring, there are several important considerations to keep in mind when image-quality and impact is paramount.
For starters, laptops are larger, with more technology capabilities that can make tablets feel limited and cumbersome.
Laptops provide full-sized keyboards, the ability to connect external hard drives and disc burners, and bigger screens with more room for the editing software’s control bars and menus.
While that can all be important, the key differentiator between laptops and tablets is the laptops’ ability to run full versions of professional-level photo editing software such as Adobe Photoshop*, Adobe Lightroom*, Corel PHOTO-PAINT*, or popular free programs like GIMP.
Even the highest-quality tablets provide a smaller toolbox of photo editing functions.
For example, most mobile devices are limited to review and light editing of JPEG or PNG files.
While that is adequate for people who simply want a record of their vacation, upper-echelon creatives will routinely prefer to work with high-resolution RAW files, which allow them to fine-tune detailed images.
A more demanding level of image wizardry requires a laptop capable of a full-powered photo editing software, which permits the photographer or graphic artist to explore every creative avenue.
Gap Closes Between Mac OSX or Windows* 10
Until recently, a Mac running OSX was considered the default choice for anyone who needed the highest levels of photo editing.
Creatives were more than willing to pay a premium for beautiful design, stunning screen resolution, great stability and security.
While Apple MacBook Pros* remain a sound choice for the most sophisticated photo-editing computer, Windows* 10 has closed the gap considerably.
At a much lower price point, this operating system offers many of the same capabilities as the Mac.
Both PCs and Macs provide intuitive, powerful, and user-friendly laptops, which can run major applications such as Adobe Creative Suite and Microsoft* Office.
Both devices feature Intel® Core™ processors that furnish the power that high-quality software requires.
And both Macs and PCs offer a wide-range of configurations, such as the MacBook Pro Air* and 2 in 1s running Windows* 10.
Screen: Size Matters (and So Does Resolution)
Recommendation: 15-inch, 1920 x 1080p, matte finish
A laptop’s display is both the creative canvas and control panel for photo editing.
Creatives who use a smaller device can make due with a high-quality 13-inch display like those found on the MacBook Pro Retina and Microsoft Surface Pro* convertible.
Generally, though, a 15-inch screen is the minimum size for those doing demanding photo editing on larger devices.
A 17-inch screen may not be necessary, though it can eliminate the need for an external display.
No matter the screen size, matte or anti-glare finishes can reduce eyestrain and visual distractions.
In terms of resolution, 1920 x 1080 pixels, which provide full high definition, is the starting point, and is usually sufficient for minimal needs.
Demanding photographers and graphic artists will typically opt for higher resolutions -- 2560 x 1600p, 3200 x 1800p, or even 4K Ultra HD.
Touch screens are not strictly necessary for photo editing.
However, they are useful for creatives who prefer to work with a stylus in a 2 in 1 convertible or peripheral drawing pad like Wacom’s popular Bamboo*.
Processor: Get as Much Horsepower As Possible
Photo editing software requires a lot of computing horsepower.
Processors are classified in two ways: by the number of cores (physical or virtual); and frequency in GHz (the clock speed).
While both are important, cores are the best way to calculate power and working capacity.
More cores mean more power, so when image-quality matters it’s wise to get the best-performing processor you can afford.
Clock speed, while secondary, should not be discounted.
Basically, the higher the clock frequency, the better the chip performs.
Photo editing requires processors in the 2.5 to 3.5 GHz range or higher.
Graphics Card/GPU: Faster Processing
Recommendation: Integrated chip graphics for casual users, special graphics chips with 60 FPS (frames for second) for power users.
Graphics processors offload work from the main CPUs, providing faster processing and better quality display, while also allowing you to move objects around the editing workspace faster.
A card from a respected maker like NVIDIA or ATI adds $60 to $200 to the price of a system.
Popular models include the basic NVIDIA GeForce GTX 950M, the mid-range GTX 960M, the GT840M, and the high end GTX 980M.
Memory: Check Your Gigs
Recommendation: 8 GB for average recreational use, 16 GB for power users
Creatives require sufficient memory to run powerful programs at an adequate speed.
RAM, or random access memory, enables photo files to run quickly and multiple instructions to run at once without lagging.
While recreational users can get by with 8GB, professional graphic artists and skilled photographers typically need at least 16GB to head off crashes, freezes and unexpected shutdowns.
Storage: Eliminate Bottlenecks
Recommendation: 1 TB hard disk drive, 7200 RPM, 512 GB Solid State Drive (SSD), hybrid with least 128 GB SSD
An insufficient amount of storage creates an I/O bottleneck that slows down processing, editing, and image uploads.
At the same time, storage is needed to handle thousands of high-res images.
RAW files from a single wedding can easily take up 10GB.
A Hard Disk Drive (HDD), one type of storage, is a conventional spinning disk.
A 1TB hard drive can comfortably support any operating system, leaving at least 700GB for other programs and data.
A Solid-State Drive (SSD), another type of storage, is built using chips.
SSDs let memory-intensive apps load and run much faster, with blazing read speeds of about 1400 MB/s and write speeds of 280+ MB/s.
Ports and Connectivity: Don’t Shortchange Yourself
Recommendation: SD card and slot, at least three USB 3.0 or 3.1 ports, Thunderbolt™ on Macs, choice of DisplayPort, HDMI, or VGA output
The rule of thumb is to get as many inputs and outputs as possible.
It will permit you to much more easily move photos into your laptop, store them in external storage drives, and burn them to CDs or DVDs.
A wealth of ports will also let you easily add large external monitors, a tablet and stylus, and ergonomic keyboards and mice, which can make long editing sessions more comfortable.
Choose Your Performance Level
Start your search for the perfect photo editing laptop.
Check out the list of good, better, & best spec options (in our opinion!) for CPUs, GPUs, and SSDs in a range of performance levels.
Consider "futureproofing" your purchase.
Buy a laptop that has headroom for more advanced technology while you're in school.
Whether you're heading off to college yourself or trying to help your favorite student, searching for and finding the best laptop for college may seem like a daunting task.
Fortunately, this is an open-book test and we can help you find the right answers.
The very first thing to consider when shopping for a new college laptop is how you’ll use it now and in the future.
With technology advancing rapidly year after year, it's a good idea to consider a laptop that can handle new applications and programs.
This is called "futureproofing" your purchase or buying a PC that has headroom for more advanced technology yet to be introduced.
Ask yourself these questions—your answers will help narrow your choices.
What programs or applications are requirements for your classes?
What field or major are you interested in?
Do you play video games, or do you want to get into gaming?
Do you use video to chat with friends or family?
Do you enjoy creating your own content—videos, podcasts, etc.?
Consider Performance First
How you use your laptop will directly influence how much performance you'll need.
Using heavy-duty apps like Adobe Premiere Pro* or playing video games requires a lot of horsepower from the CPU.
However, if you or your future college student will use the laptop for more basic tasks like word processing, downloading music, and posting to social media, then a top-of-the-line CPU might not be necessary.
Form Factors
Today's laptops are a far cry from the thick, bulky machines of the last two decades.
In fact, the traditional clamshell laptop design is now joined by other types of designs and form factors.
Clamshell
Once the only design option for laptops, clamshells (laptops that open and close) are still a popular choice.
But nowadays, many clamshells offer more features, such as touchscreens, super high-resolution displays, chassis made from non-traditional materials, and improved connectivity options, such Thunderbolt™ 3 ports.
2 in 1s
2 in 1 laptops offer great flexibility without a need to compromise.
2 in 1s offer the best of both worlds—the performance of a PC and the fun of a tablet, in one sleek device.
There are two different types of 2 in 1 laptops: Detachable and convertible.
Convertibles
Keyboards stay attached and can swivel, twist, or flip.
Flip for "tent" or "stand" modes to share content or present.
Fold entirely in half for "tablet" mode.
Great for productivity-minded students who work hard but want tablet functionality for entertainment.
Detachables
Provide super-fast switching from laptop to tablet modes.
Offer a pure tablet experience when keyboard is detached.
Perfect for web surfers who also need to type now and then.
When thinking about these different form factors, consider the weight and thickness of your new laptop.
A long trek across campus can quickly become uncomfortable if you're lugging around a heavy laptop.
Thankfully, laptops available today come in a range of sizes and weights.
Which leads us to your next consideration—the laptop's screen.
Screen Size
The size of a laptop's screen will directly influence its weight and price.
Laptops are typically categorized in stores and online by the size of their screens.
Common screen sizes for laptops usually start at 11 inches and continue up to 17 inches.
Again, ask yourself where and how you’ll use your new laptop to help you decide on a screen size.
Does either your schoolwork or interests require you to use an external monitor?
11- to 13-inch models
If mobility is most important to you, consider these options:
A small laptop
A super-thin, lightweight laptop (sometimes referred to as an Ultrabook)
Small laptops with 11- or 13-inch screens are a great choice if you have a strict budget, need extreme portability, and only need to complete basic tasks, such as Web browsing, e-mail, and word processing.
17-inch models
If performance is your top priority, or you want a laptop that can replace your desktop, go for a 17-inch workhorse.
These models may weigh more than others, but they really pack a punch.
These large laptops are usually best for gamers, content creators, or video editors who need a lot of processing power to complete complicated tasks.
This large screen may eliminate your possible need for an external monitor.
15-inch models
For a good balance between mobility, performance, and price, check out some 15-inch models.
Many weigh four pounds or less and are targeted for the mainstream consumer—meaning you’ll probably find more features you want, such as more ports, an optical (DVD or CD) drive, and better battery life.
Battery Life
Battery life is always a main concern when it comes to purchasing a laptop.
Unfortunately, establishing the battery life of a laptop is no easy task for manufacturers.
How long a laptop's battery will last depends on what you're using the PC for; it's best to look at manufacturers' specs as a general guideline.
Generally speaking, the bigger the screen size of your laptop, or the heavier the model, the less battery life it will provide.
Smaller laptops and Ultrabooks use lower voltage processors designed specifically to offer better battery life.
Go online to manufacturers’ Web sites to research battery life, or read online reviews.
Typically, mid-sized to larger laptops will offer between four and six hours, while ultra-portable models can go for as long as ten hours.
Ports/Connectivity
Don't understate the importance of ports and how you'll connect different peripherals (i.e., cameras, phones, and other devices) to your laptop.
While many peripheral devices can connect wirelessly, sometimes you just need a USB port.
Smaller laptops, and thin models will have fewer ports.
What kinds of ports are available on laptops?
USB ports—The most used and recognizable of all connectivity ports, USB ports allow you to connect a huge variety of devices, including external hard drives, cameras, keyboards, mice, and more.
The latest version is USB 3.1, which offers higher transfer speeds of 10 Gbps.
Thunderbolt™ 3 ports—Thunderbolt™ 3 provides the fastest connection and transfer rates to date, offering 40 Gbps (four times faster than USB 3.1).
Ethernet ports—An Ethernet port allows you to connect your laptop directly to a wired network.
Many laptops don’t include these ports because of the availability of Wi-Fi.
But if you’re somewhere on campus where the Wi-Fi is poor, use these ports and an Ethernet cable to jump online.
If your favorite model doesn’t have an Ethernet port, there are USB-to-Ethernet adapters available.
HDMI/VGA/DVI—These types of ports allow you to connect to displays or other screens, such as an HDTV or an external monitor.
SD card reader—Also known as SDHC card reader, this slot is used for digital camera memory cards.
This makes transferring digital photos to your laptop quick and easy.
Keyboard
Gamers and writers aren’t the only ones who believe a laptop’s keyboard is its most important feature.
Think about it—you’ll use the keyboard more than any other part of the laptop, so you’ll want one that’s comfortable, easy to use, and provides a satisfying spring or tactile feel.
Do you require or prefer a backlit keyboard?
Also, consider key placement and size.
Do you want a 10-key pad?
Are all the keys in a standard position that you like?
Make sure to try out different keyboards.
Open a word processor and tap away.
You’ll probably know right away if a laptop’s keyboard just isn’t for you.
Touchpad
Many people forego a mouse and instead depend on a laptop’s touchpad to get things done.
A comfortable, easy-to-use touchpad is important, especially if you’re travelling, or working in a cramped space like a café or lecture hall.
Consider the size and placement of the touchpad, whether you prefer one large pad or separate left- and right-click buttons.
Some touchpads even include patterns and textures for a tactile experience.
Graphics
The majority of laptop models are powered by a CPU that also includes an integrated graphics chipset.
This means the graphics are actually built into the processor eliminating the need for a separate graphics card.
These integrated graphic technologies, such as Intel® HD or Intel Iris® Plus graphics, are more powerful than ever before, allowing you to play mainstream games, support up to three separate displays, and stream up to 1080p.
However, if you’re a gamer or filmmaker, you’ll want to look into dedicated graphics or GPU.
Dedicated graphics are more powerful than integrated graphics but also are substantially more expensive when it comes to the price of the laptop.
RAM
You’ll hear this term thrown around a lot as you shop for your college laptop.
Random Access Memory, or RAM.
RAM temporarily stores recently-used data for quick access later.
Think of it as the info you know off the top of your head—you use it often and your brain can access it quickly.
The more RAM that’s available, the faster a computer will feel to you.
Consider 8 GBs to 16 GBs of RAM for your laptop.
Storage
Pictures, videos, and other data you’ll want to save for a long time are stored in your laptop’s “long-term memory.”
It’s data that may not be used frequently, but it’s pretty important to save, keep, and use when necessary.
This data can be stored on a hard disk drive (HDD), a solid-state drive (SSD), or even a hybrid of the two.
SSDs typically provide faster access to data and start up times and are very reliable and durable, as they have no moving parts.
The Final Decision
It may seem like a lot to remember, but finding the perfect laptop for your college career can really set you up for success.
Make a checklist using the features in this article, and focus on what you’ll need most from your college laptop in terms of size, weight, processing power, and storage.
If the speed (or lack thereof) of your computer is leaving you cold, it could be a sign that your computer RAM isn’t up to snuff with your needs.
If your computer is between two and four years old, it might mean your processor is too slow to handle the demands of today’s more powerful applications.
It’s probably time to start thinking about a computer upgrade.
For help, click over to the Intel Product Finder to find the best computer for you.
How Computer and Laptop RAM Works
RAM stands for random-access memory, but what does that mean?
Your computer RAM is essentially short term memory where data is stored as the processor needs it.
This isn’t to be confused with long-term data that’s stored on your hard drive, which stays there even when your computer is turned off.
Anytime you play a game from your computer’s hard drive or stream a movie from the Internet, all of the data that your computer’s processor needs to play the game or watch the movie is stored in RAM.
This is so that your processor can get to it quickly.
Once you’re done playing your game or watching your movie and you close it down, the processor doesn’t need that data anymore, so it replaces it with the next task you give it.
RAM can slow down your computer if there isn’t enough of it for the processor to perform the tasks you ask it to.
If your processor wants to load more data than your computer RAM can handle, it has to keep going back to the hard drive or the Internet to obtain the information again.
This is just like someone trying to pick up more tennis balls than they can carry; in the end, they spend more time picking up tennis balls than playing the game!
How Your Computer Processor Works
The processor makes up a computer’s ability to think, much like the conscious parts of your brain.
The faster you can answer math problems, read and understand the words in a book, get the meaning of a joke, or accurately tell your body what to do while playing a sport, the more powerful your brain is.
Computer processors are the same way.
The more powerful they are, the faster they can perform tasks with the data (games, movies, applications, etc.)
that’s available on your hard drive and online.
Your computer’s processor works with RAM to function as a team.
RAM is like your short-term memory.
If you were to bump your head and lose your short-term memory (your RAM), you wouldn’t be able to remember anything that happened more than a few seconds ago.
However, you’d still be able to think perfectly well.
But think about it—without any memory, you (and your processor) would have severe difficulties.
More Performance for Less Cost
What you’ll find on the market these days by way of all-in-one PCs, laptops, and 2 in 1 devices can handily deliver a far superior performance experience for a lot less money than you might have thought possible.
If you’ve been on the fence about buying a new computer, take a look at some of the super-performing computers available today.
You’ll be pleasantly surprised by what you find.
Learn more about this landscape and the requirements for a computing system that can handle the demands of these new, immersive experiences.
The border between the virtual and real world continues to break down, providing breathtaking experiences that, a short time ago, could only be found in the imagination of sci-fi writers.
Virtual Reality (VR) has been the “next big thing” for several years, but its time has finally come as a way to generate realistic images, sounds, and other sensations that put you smack in the middle of a spectacular imaginary world.
Augmented Reality (AR), which adds virtual stuff to your real world environment, is contributing to the buzz, and both technologies should become a big part of our future.
With Mixed Reality (MR), you can play a virtual video game, grab your real world water bottle, and smack an imaginary character from the game with the bottle.
Imagination and reality have never been so intermingled.
So much is happening so fast that the differences between VR, AR, and MR can seem a little puzzling at first.
Each of these spellbinding technologies are accessible to almost everyone, but before you throw down your hard-earned money for the latest head-mounted display, let’s take a closer look at what you’ll need for an amazing VR, AR, or MR experience.
The History and Future of Virtual Reality
We’ve been trying to capture “Virtual Reality” for much longer than just the past five to ten years.
There were popular peer-through toys in the 1950s and enclosed flight simulators debuted in the 1960s, but the idea of VR goes back even further.
As early as the 1930s, science fiction writers, inventors, and tinkerers dreamt of an environment where you could escape from reality via art and machines.
We were weighing questions about Virtual Reality vs Augmented Reality vs Mixed Reality long before we had the technology to make them possible.
Technology has caught up to fiction, and market researchers predict rapid growth for the VR industry.
VR and AR Meet MR
First things first, let’s define the terminology.
Virtual Reality can be used as an umbrella term to describe other technologies similar to, but different from, an actual Virtual Reality experience.
But what's the difference between Augmented Reality and Mixed Reality?
Here are some more details:
Virtual Reality
VR is the most widely known of these technologies.
It is fully immersive, which tricks your senses into thinking you’re in a different environment or world apart from the real world.
Using a head-mounted display (HMD) or headset, you’ll experience a computer-generated world of imagery and sounds in which you can manipulate objects and move around using haptic controllers while tethered to a console or PC.
Augmented Reality
AR overlays digital information on real-world elements.
Pokémon GO* is among the best-known examples.
Augmented reality keeps the real world central but enhances it with other digital details, layering new strata of perception, and supplementing your reality or environment.
Mixed Reality
MR brings together real world and digital elements.
In mixed reality, you interact with and manipulate both physical and virtual items and environments, using next-generation sensing and imaging technologies.
Mixed Reality allows you to see and immerse yourself in the world around you even as you interact with a virtual environment using your own hands—all without ever removing your headset.
It provides the ability to have one foot (or hand) in the real world, and the other in an imaginary place, breaking down basic concepts between real and imaginary, offering an experience that can change the way you game and work today.
Using Virtual Reality Technologies
From gaming, to movies, to medicine, the uses for Virtual Reality, Augmented Reality, and Mixed Reality are expanding.
Healthcare—For training, such as for surgical simulations
Film and TV—For movies and shows to create unique experiences
Virtual travel—For virtual trips to an art museum—or another planet—all from home
Professional sports—For training programs like STRIVR to help pro and amateur athletes
Gaming—For over 1,000 games already available, from first-person shooters to strategy games to role-playing adventures
What You’ll Need: Headsets
There are many, many VR headsets available, all with varying performance levels and prices.
Entry-level gear, such as Google Cardboard*, uses your mobile phone as the screen, whereas PC-operated devices, like the HTC Vive* or Oculus Rift*, are immersive—providing a premium VR environment.
Microsoft has recently announced their Windows* 10 Mixed Reality platform that initially uses fully immersive headsets offered by Acer, Asus, Dell, HP, Lenovo, and Samsung.
Some AR headsets are available on the market today, with more rumored to be coming in the future.
The Microsoft Hololens*, Google Glass*, and the Meta 2* headset are great examples.
Every PC-connected HMD will have different system requirements, so if you’re buying a new Virtual Reality headset, make sure you check with the HMD vendor for their recommended and minimum system requirements.
What You’ll Need: Computers
If you are looking for a new computer and you’re interested in VR, you’ll need something that can handle heavy loads.
When it comes to high-end desktops or laptops for Virtual Reality (and other advanced tasks like gaming or video editing), the CPU, GPU, and memory are the most critical components.
Without these high-performing components working in sync, you could have a pretty miserable experience.
A powerful system will ensure that you’ll have fun as you lean in, stand up, or walk around.
VR that lags makes it impossible for the virtual world to respond as you expect, which can lead to more than just disappointment; it increases the risk of motion sickness.
A high-end processor assists in positional tracking and controls how real and immersive your virtual environment will be, so you'll enjoy a deeper experience in a higher-fidelity environment.
For a great VR experience, consider the latest generation Intel® Core™ i7 processor.
A discrete graphics processing unit (GPU) is recommended, or in the case of Oculus Rift*, HTC Vive*, and Windows Mixed Reality Ultra*, it is required.
The GPU is responsible for rendering the high resolution, immersive images needed for VR.
Oculus, HTC, and Microsoft all have profiler tools that you can download from their websites, and you can use to run on your PC to determine if it meets the minimum requirements for their VR headsets.
Choose Your Experience
New VR and AR technologies and products continue to come to market, making new environments accessible to the masses.
Virtual, Augmented, Mixed—the choice for a new reality is up to you.
Let your imagination, and your readiness to try new gear, enhance your experience!
Key VR Terms to Know
Use this chart to learn more VR terms and definitions.
﻿With an unlocked Intel® Core™ processor and an easy-to-use overclocking toolkit, you can tune your system to deliver maximum power.12
The Rule: Maximize frequency and minimize voltage while extracting as much heat as possible so the system remains stable.
STEP 1: Set Up Hardware
1.1 - Start with a motherboard and power supply which are optimized for Intel® unlocked processors.
Select a motherboard designed specifically to enable overclocking when paired with Intel® unlocked processors.
Utilize a robust ATX power supply which can handle the increased power draw.
Review the disclosure about overclocking below and make sure you understand the risks.
1.2 - Apply aggressive cooling
Utilize a robust cooling solution which can cool the processor well beyond the minimum processor requirements.
Liquid cooling is ideal, and added chassis fans will further improve overclocking potential.
STEP 2: Tweak Software Settings
2.1 - Increase power limits and Icc Max
Using BIOS or software like the Intel® Extreme Tuning Utility, increase power limits and max current/ICC limits to match the capabilities of your motherboard, power supply, and cooling solution.
2.2 - Increase frequency
Increase the ratio for the subsystem you are attempting to overclock (processor core, graphics, ring/cache).
NOTE: The frequency is equal to ratio multiplied to the base clock.
For example: a target frequency increase to 5,000 MHz the ratio would be 50, if base clock is at default (100MHz).
Also note processor graphics overclocking ratio is multiplied by half of base clock.
STEP 3: Run Stress Tests
3.1 - Determine if stable
Determine if the overclocked system is reliable by running one or more stress tests to confirm system stability.
NOTE: The Intel Extreme Tuning Utility contains several helpful stress tests and benchmarks.
3.2 - If not stable: Increase voltage
If the system was unstable during stress tests, try increasing the voltage.
This will be required when overclocking higher than 100 to 200 MHz.
Try increasing 5 to 10mV at a time and use the least voltage possible.
When increasing voltage no longer improves stability, you may have reached the maximum stable frequency.
It is recommended you select “adaptive” voltage mode before finalizing voltage settings.
Note: advanced overclockers may choose to increase voltage ahead of frequency on subsequent attempts.
3.3 - If stable: Push frequency higher or complete overclocking
If the system is stable after stress testing, then you could push for a higher frequency, in which case go back to step 2.2. If satisfied with the overclocking results, the process is complete.
STEP 4: Overclock Your Game
Congratulations! You have successfully overclocked your system and ensured stability.
Thunderbolt™ 3 technology offers a fast and simple level of connection for work or home, bringing the speed and versatility of Thunderbolt™ to USB-C.
Increase productivity by connecting multiple displays or devices through a single, compact port, or enjoy high performance graphics on the latest thin and light laptops.
Paired with the 8th Generation Intel® Core™ processor family or Intel® Core™ vPro™ processors, Thunderbolt™ 3 technology optimizes PC performance.
Thunderbolt™ 3 technology is 8x faster than USB 3.0 and provides 4x more video bandwidth than HDMI 1.41 helping you work and play more efficiently.
It also enables a simple, single cable connection to displays, docks and storage, while charging the system.
Expand your capabilities while reducing cables with the simplicity of a single Thunderbolt™ 3 technology port paired with the latest 8th Generation Intel® Core™ processor.
Now, just one computer port can enable lightning-fast data transfer, support two 4K UHD 60 Hz displays2, and provide quick laptop charging.
It’s the most advanced, efficient, and versatile single-docking solution available.
Incredible data transfer rates deliver exciting potential for multi-streaming HD and 4K UHD video to multiple monitors, or transfer 4K UHD movies and hours of 4K UHD GoPro* footage with ease.
With an unprecedented speed of 40Gbps, Thunderbolt™ 3 technology provides the bandwidth to do it all.
With Thunderbolt™ 3 technology-based External Graphics (eGFX), gamers and heavy graphics users who are on-the-go now have easy-to-use choices to have an ultimate graphics experience.
You can enjoy the high-performance graphics you love on the latest thin and light laptop with excellent battery life.
Work and play in high resolution with Intel® UHD Graphics, Iris® graphics, and Iris® Plus graphics.
Watch captivating 4K Ultra HD (UHD) video on up to three screens, edit photos and videos like a pro, and immerse yourself in vividly rendered, seamless 3D gameplay - all with the added power boost of an Intel® Core™ processor.
Intel® Graphics Technology brings stunning visuals to thinner and lighter portable devices, like laptops, 2 in 1s, and desktop computers.
Graphics for a Billion
This is the Odyssey: Intel graphics’ epic journey in defining the next era of visual computing.
We’re developing a revolutionary new graphics architecture that scales exponentially from consumer notebooks to data centers.
This commitment requires engineering excellence and a fearless approach, but also includes a heightened need to engage and listen to tech enthusiast communities around the world to keep us on the right track.
Come and define a better visual experience for a billion people with us.
Take the Guess Work Out of Game Tuning
Our engineers extensively test the latest games to arm you with optimized in-game settings for your particular Intel graphics system.
Grab the latest Launch Driver and visit gameplay.intel.com to get recommended settings.
Built to be user-friendly and visually-stunning, our Intel® Graphics Command Center makes it easy to understand and fine-tune settings for your favorite games as well as to customize color settings and display configurations.
Available for 6th Gen Intel® Core™ processors and newer.
This Is Brilliance
Watching content with Intel® Graphics Technology will change your perspective forever.
View stunning 4K UHD video, play games with even more intensity, and immerse yourself completely in up to four angles of the same event with multi-screen capability.
Never watch on anything less again.
Iris® Graphics Power Great Experiences
When you use Iris® graphics and Iris® Plus graphics, you're working smarter, playing harder and seeing the whole world in high resolution knowing you are using a powerful Intel® Core™ processor with enhanced media conversion and fast frame rates that deliver picture perfect performance, every time.
Remarkable Performance
Get blazing fast performance with an Intel® Core™ processor equipped with Iris® graphics and Iris® Plus graphics—up to 12% better than mobile processors without Iris® graphics.
Experience stunning gameplay in up to 1080p, and enjoy the visual performance you need for a seamless video and photo editing experience.
Whether you're a media creator or a gamer, fantastic new experiences await.
﻿Learn whether upgrading to Windows* 10 is a good choice for you and whether your computer has the right requirements to run it well1.
When Windows* 10 came out July 29, 2015, many were cautious to sing its praises, but over time, the improvements to security, its enhanced personalization features, and the attention to gaming won over many critics.
All in all, Windows* 10 is a very stable, secure, and feature-packed operating system (OS).
Most people will benefit from using Windows* 10, and in this article we will cover whether or not it is the best choice for you.
Top Reasons to Upgrade to Windows* 10
The top three reasons you should upgrade to Windows:
Improved interface (Start menu) and personalization
Enhanced security features
Great gaming additions
Improved Interface and Personalization
Improving the way we interact with our PC is one of the key advancements in Windows* 10.
By bringing back the Start menu, and introducing Cortana* (a personal assistant) Microsoft is improving the user interface (UI) and scoring points with users who prefer simplicity.
Start menu
The Microsoft Start menu was introduced with Windows* 95 more than 20 years ago.
Since then, it’s been through much iteration, but no major changes were made until the release of Windows* 8 when the Start menu was replaced with the Start Screen and “live tiles.”
The touch-based interface and full screen of apps was a bit jarring to users.
Microsoft heard the criticism loud and clear.
Windows* 10 not only brought the Start menu back, but it also added in the best features of the Windows* 8 Start Screen.
Using the new Start menu in Windows* 10, you can:
Change its size by dragging the borders or corners of the Start menu
Arrange, add, or delete any of the tiles, programs, or apps that appear on the Start menu
Fully personalize it by changing color scheme and other settings
Cortana*
Cortana* is a personal digital assistant built into the Windows* 10 OS.
Much more than just a search engine, Cortana* can answer questions, search your entire PC for files or documents, provide reminders, track flights, or even tell you a joke.
Cortana* is also available on Android devices and Xbox One consoles.
Edge Browser*
Microsoft bid farewell to Internet Explorer with Windows* 10 and introduced its new browser—Edge*.
According to Microsoft, the browser was built from the ground up to provide a clean, modern, easy way to surf the Web and take advantage of future advancements.
New features allow you to:
Preview multiple pages by hovering over open tabs
Pin tabs to the browser bar for one-click access to commonly-visited sites
Interact with Cortana* while you browse to receive deals, coupons, and notifications
Virtual Desktops
As Mac and Linux users already know, virtual desktops are great for those of us who open a lot of programs at once but want to keep things organized.
Microsoft’s goal in creating virtual desktops was to:
Give users more desktop space to group related windows
Help users quickly locate and switch to any window or group of windows
Allows users to re-organize groups and move windows as tasks evolve
Windows Ink*
Windows Ink* is a compelling feature that was introduced with the Windows* 10 Anniversary edition.
The Windows Ink* Workspace provides a digital pen to make notes, edits, or even to create a sticky note.
Windows Ink* also includes a sketchpad, screen sketch capabilities, as well as your favorite digital pen apps.
Security Improvements
Some have said that Windows* 10 is the most stable and secure OS from Microsoft to date.
Security is a huge concern in today’s digital world, and Windows* 10 was built with security in mind.
These security enhancements include:
Windows Hello*
Use Windows Hello* to log into your PC faster and more securely than before.
Using the camera on your PC, Windows Hello* will recognize your face instantly and securely log you in.
Or, you can use the fingerprint reader, which works the same way.
Once you’ve enabled Windows Hello*, you can also use it with compatible apps, like Dropbox, so you can skip entering your password manually.
Signing in is simply faster and safer.
Windows Defender*
Windows* 10 provides an entirely redesigned Windows Defender*, which helps guard your PC against malware and viruses.
Windows Defender* runs in the background scanning files as you access them (and before you open them!).
Windows Firewall*
Windows Firewall* protects your network’s security by keeping hackers and malicious software from penetrating your PC.
Windows Firewall* establishes a protective barrier between your PC and the hackers of the world.
Great Gaming
You could make a case that Windows* 10 was designed with gamers in mind.
From support to DirectX 12 to providing new ways to game across devices, Windows* 10 provides great features and benefits for gamers of any skill level.
DirectX 12
Using Windows* 10, games take advantage of the graphic fidelity of DirectX 12.
DirectX 12 games use the full capabilities of your PC’s video hardware to deliver sharper visuals and improved performance.
Xbox Play Anywhere
Microsoft has just unveiled its new Xbox Play Anywhere solution.
Now when you buy an Xbox Play Anywhere digital title, you can play it on your Xbox One and any Windows* 10 PC at no additional cost.
Start a game, and then pick up where you left off, even on another device! You won’t lose any of your saves, add-ons, or achievements.
Built-in Broadcasting
Want to stream your domination to the world?
No problem—Windows* 10 allows you to stream your gameplay using the Game Bar.
Just hit the Windows key plus G.
Click Broadcast and start streaming.
What’s Not to Like?
Windows* 10 is a solid choice for most users, providing great personalization features and interface improvements, as well as strong security features and gaming enhancements.
So, what’s not to like?
Well, there are some cases where upgrading to Windows* 10 might not be a high priority.
Cost
Microsoft released Windows* 10 as a free upgrade until July 29, 2016.
If you upgrade now, you’ll pay the retail price (~$119).
Windows Media Center*
Windows Media Center* was designed to run as a full-screen media player and also support television channels (from tuners).
Windows Media Center* has a loyal and devoted following, but it was phased out with the Windows* 10 upgrade.
So, if your entertainment solution is built around Windows Media Center*, you’re probably better off sticking with your current Windows* OS until you can find a more viable option.
Windows* 7 or 8 Enthusiasts
With support extending until 2018 and 2020, both Windows* 7 and Windows* 8 are still favored by many users.
If everything is working fine for you, and you prefer the design and UI of Windows* 7 or Windows* 8, there probably isn’t a need to upgrade right now.
However, make sure you’re using adequate or additional security measures (Windows* 10 offers enhanced security features).
Windows* 10: A More Powerful Upgrade
So, what’s the answer?
Should you upgrade to Windows* 10?
For most PC users, the answer is yes.
Secure and stable, Windows* 10 offers a powerful way to stay connected, productive, and entertained.
﻿Whether you want to cut the cable or just stream your vacation videos, it’s easy to connect your laptop to your TV in one of these four ways.
In their search for entertainment, many people have cut the cable (or satellite), preferring to get their programming off YouTube and other Internet sites for little or no cost.
However, they don’t always want to consume that content off the smaller screens that come with laptops and other devices.
The solution?
Keep that big TV working by feeding it directly from your laptop.
There are several ways to do this, and it’s simpler than you might imagine.
Get Wired Up
The easiest way to connect your laptop to your television is with a cable that hooks into each device.
Most laptops built over the last Half-decade have an HDMI port (which stands for “High-Definition Multimedia Interface”).
The HDMI port looks like a longer and thinner version of the USB port that you’ve probably used for flash drives, printers, and other devices.
Most HDMI cables are inexpensive, and the port on your TV should be easy to find.
Connecting the two devices is no more difficult than using an extension cord.
Set your TV to the correct input for HDMI, and the laptop should automatically configure to provide the best settings.
If your laptop does not automatically output its screen to the TV, go to your Desktop, Right-click your mouse, and go to Display Settings > Display > Adjust Resolution, you can also get there by going to the Control Panel.
Select the TV in the drop down box that appears.
You will also have the option of using different resolutions.
Try the recommended version, but if that doesn’t appeal to you, you can fiddle with other settings.
Select this video to view the easy connection and setup process.
Cable Up an Older Laptop
If you’re using an older laptop that doesn’t have an HDMI port, your answer might be VGA port.
No, this isn’t a professional golf organization.
It’s a different kind of port that is roughly rectangular with 15 pins in three rows of five.
VGA cables only provide the video output, so this method requires a second cable (what’s called a 3.5mm lead), which plugs into your TV and into your laptop’s headphone port.
While HDMI and VGA are the two most common cable types, sometimes your laptop or TV will need a different cable, such as a DisplayPort (which carries both video and audio) or Composite Video (another Video-only cable that requires a second video for the sound).
If you’re puzzled about your ports, you can see images of the most common connections here.
Of course, your computer and TV might not have the same type of connection.
For example, your TV might sport an HDMI connection, but your computer has a DisplayPort.
No need to toss up your hands in frustration and settle for the radio.
You simply need to buy an adapter, an inexpensive device that has a DisplayPort connection on one end, and an HDMI connection on the other end.
(There are adapters for most other combinations as well.)
Place the correct connection of the adapter into the cable that feeds into your laptop, and plug the other end into your TV.
Like the HDMI cable, your devices should automatically recognize each other.
If not, go into the control panel and adjust the settings just as you would with an HDMI cable.
Mirror, Mirror on the TV
Since its introduction in July 2015, the Windows* 10 operating system allows you to mirror your computer screen to a TV, Blu-ray* player, or any device that’s compatible with the Miracast* standard, which has been around since 2013.
(Windows* 7, Windows* 8, and other earlier operating systems can support the standard as well.)
Miracast can be described as “HDMI over Wi-Fi” since it does the same thing as an HDMI cable without the cable—mirror the content on your laptop onto the television set to which it’s connected.
This approach requires a little doohickey called a Miracast dongle.
These small devices come in different forms depending on the manufacturer, but they work in a similar way: A dongle plugs into the HDMI port on your laptop allowing the laptop to “discover” another device like your TV and make a direct connection to it.
It doesn’t require a Wi-Fi network.
To turn your PC into a Miracast receiver, just open Windows* 10’s Start menu and open the “Connect” app.
If you don’t see this app, you need to upgrade to the Anniversary Update of the operating system.
Streaming Is a Dream
Another way to connect your laptop and TV is with a dedicated media stream, with the most common being Google's Chromecast*, Roku's Streaming Stick*, Amazon Fire Stick*, or Apple's TV*.
These devices all work in a similar manner, so let’s look at how Chromecast operates.
You plug the dongle into the HDMI port on your television, and it will act as a transmitter that connects to your laptop or other mobile device over your Wi-Fi network.
Chromecast doesn’t mirror the content on your laptop like the other methods in this list.
Instead, your mobile device (smart phone or tablet running Android or iOS or your computer running the Windows or Mac OS X operating systems) acts as a remote control.
It directs the dongle plugged into the TV to the Internet content you want to stream.
The setup is easy.
As soon as you plug the dongle into your TV, it should recognize your laptop and walk you through the setup process.
People debate about which is the best dedicated media streamer, but a common breakdown is:
Chromecast is designed for people who primarily want to watch video from their computer on their TV or stream content that is available through a browser.
An Audio-only Chromecast device has also been produced for people who want to listen to music over their television.
Roku Streaming Stick is aimed at people who want to view a large collection of TV apps.
Most of the streamers can access the major audio and video apps, like YouTube, but Roku is considered to offer the most choices.
Amazon Fire Stick is for streaming (Subscription-based) Amazon Prime Video content, which includes its own original shows and movies plus content it obtains from other premium networks too.
Apple TV is ideal for people who access a lot of material on iTunes or play phone and tablet games on their TVs.
Not all the media streamers can access iTunes.
There are lots of media streamer choices with different versions that have features such as voice navigation that allows you to search through content using voice commands.
The cost of the devices can run anywhere from $35 to $150.
Cutting the cable (or satellite) doesn’t mean you have to give up your favorite programs.
And even if you keep cable or satellite, there may be times you want to stream content directly from your laptop to your TV anyway—such as to show photos and videos of your vacation.
So pick the approach that appeals most to you, and increase your entertainment options.
Did you know that you can hook your laptop up to a desktop monitor and expand your on-screen real estate to two full screens?
What’s even cooler is that if you upgrade to a Laptop with Windows* 10, you can assign a separate viewing mode for both screens.
The Benefits of Connecting Your Laptop to a Monitor
Laptops aren’t just wireless, portable desktop computers.
With the right setup, you can turn your laptop computer into a multi-tasking workhorse that’ll make you say “Gee, I never thought I could do all that!”
All you need to do is follow the simple instructions below on how to connect a laptop to a monitor.
Then you’ll be set.
Getting more screen inches isn’t the only reason someone might want to connect a monitor to a laptop.
Here are a couple of scenarios that spell out some of the other benefits.
Multi-tasking: Connecting your laptop to a monitor enables you to go into split screen mode, where you can watch a movie on your PC monitor and tweet about it on your laptop screen.
This gives you a cool setup that prevents you from having to keep toggling back and forth between applications.
More screen real estate: By connecting your laptop to a monitor, you can literally double the size of your available screen space.
Functions can be moved from one screen to the other so that you don’t have to shrink windows down or toggle to see two programs at the same time.
This type of setup is ideal for a number of scenarios, from leisure activities like video chatting while you’re on Facebook to updating a work spreadsheet while you’re referencing facts on another platform.
Extra options in Windows* 10: With Windows* 10, you can choose between a traditional desktop view or the new metro menu.
But when you connect your laptop to a second desktop screen, you can actually have your proverbial cake and eat it too by running both at the same time.
Three Things You’ll Need to Do When Connecting Your Laptop to a Monitor
Get the right cable.
When you connect an external monitor to a laptop computer, you have to run a cable between the two devices.
Make sure that you get a monitor cable that matches the sockets on your laptop and monitor.
Tell your operating system you’re using a second screen.
It’s easy to do this in Windows* 10 by going to your Desktop, right click your mouse and go to Display Settings.
On Macs, the connection of an external monitor is automatically recognized.
Set up the orientation of the monitors.
In both PCs and Macs, you can opt whether you want the second screen to mirror your laptop screen or to act as an extension of the first.
Access the Control Panel on your PC or System Preferences on your Mac.
Learning how to connect your laptop to a monitor is pretty simple and can enhance your experience, even improve your productivity.
Imagine not ever having to toggle between open windows and running programs on your laptop.
Sounds pretty good, right?
Teaching yourself this easy task can make your life simpler and much more productive.
Learn about hotspots, including how to use them safely to obtain Internet access to your mobile devices via Wi-Fi1.
Hotspots—what are they, where are they, and how can you connect to them while protecting your privacy and security?
If you’ve ever tried to answer an email or surf the Internet from your mobile device in public—or even at the office or your house—chances are you connected to a Wi-Fi hotspot.
Not only is this connection highly convenient, you also didn’t have to use your smartphone’s data.
Not surprisingly, hotspots are becoming an essential part of public infrastructure—and our Internet experience.
Millions of people every day connect to public hotspots for their data needs.
By some estimates, there are almost 200 million hotspots around the world, and there will be one hotspot for every 20 people on earth by 2018.
Thanks to our modern always-on digital lifestyle, people expect to be constantly connected, and public Wi-Fi access points are expanding to a global network of hotspots to meet those needs.
Terminology
Before we dive in to how to connect to a hotspot and related security issues, let’s define what we mean.
While some people use the terms “hotspot” and “mobile hotspot” interchangeably, they have distinct meanings.
Hotspot: A hotspot is a physical location where people can access the Internet, typically using Wi-Fi, via a wireless local area network (WLAN) with a router connected to an Internet service provider.
Most people refer to these locations as “Wi-Fi hotspots” or “Wi-Fi connections.”
Simply put, hotspots are the physical places where users can wirelessly connect their mobile devices, such as smartphones and tablets, to the Internet.
A hotspot can be in a private location or a public one, such as in a coffee shop, a hotel, an airport, or even an airplane.
While many public hotspots offer free wireless access on an open network, others require payment.
Later in the article you’ll learn how to connect a mobile device to a Wi-Fi hotspot.
Mobile hotspot: A mobile hotspot (sometimes called a portable hotspot) is a hotspot that’s just that—mobile!
While a “regular” Wi-Fi hotspot is tied to a physical location, you can create a mobile hotspot by using your smartphone’s data connection to connect your laptop to the Internet.
This process is called “tethering.”
More on this process later.
You should also know these terms when you’re talking about Wi-Fi hotspots.
Access point (wireless access point):  A wireless access point (WAP) is a networking device that allows a Wi-Fi compliant device to connect to a wired network.
The WAP can either be physically connected to a router or be integrated into the router itself.
A WAP is not a hotspot, which is the physical location where Wi-Fi access to a WLAN is available.
Wi-Fi: Wi-Fi is the technology that allows your smartphone or computer to access the Internet through a wireless connection.
It uses radio signals to send and receive data between your enabled device and the WAP.
SSID: A service set identifier (more commonly known as an SSID) is the unique name of a wireless network.
You’ll need to know the name of the wireless network to connect to it.
Your computer or smartphone can search for available wireless networks; often people name their network for easy identification—anything from “Bob’s phone” to “hotel guests” to “Get off my LAN.”
Now that you understand some of the terms associated with hotspots, let’s learn how to connect to them.
How to Connect to a Wi-Fi Hotspot
You probably connect your smartphone or laptop to the Internet via several Wi-Fi hotspots throughout your day, whether you’re at your office, in your home, or at public locations like coffee shops and airports.
Using hotspots is an easy way to keep connected to your busy life.
Connecting to a wireless hotspot is a simple process.
Let’s use your smartphone as an example.
You want to answer an email at the airport while you’re waiting for your flight, and you don’t want to use your data.
You can set your smartphone to notify you when it’s in range of a wireless network, or you can find wireless networks through your phone’s settings.
The steps you need to follow to connect to the Wi-Fi hotspot will depend on the device—Android*, iPhone*, or another brand—but here is an overview.
Click the wireless icon on your device to see the names of nearby wireless networks.
Select a wireless network; in some cases, you might also have to click “Connect.”
Enter the security key or the password.
Most wireless networks are secured and require a password to accept a connection.
Some networks are unsecured or open and do not require a password; you should take care when accessing them as they could introduce a security risk.
Select the network type (home, work, or public, if you are on a Windows* device).
Choosing the network type will establish a security level appropriate for your location.
If you select “home” or “work,” your device will be discoverable to other devices.
Be sure to select “public” if you are in a public location like a coffee shop, hotel, restaurant, airport, and other similar locations.
Voilà! You’ll be online in a flash.
Depending on where you are and the types of hotspots near you, you may be on either an open, unsecured wireless network or a paid/commercial wireless network.
You may be asked to sign up for an account or use a paid service like Boingo* or iPass*, which offer various Wi-Fi access plans depending on how much time you plan use the Internet.
Let’s say, though, that you can’t find a Wi-Fi hotspot nearby.
Read on to learn how you can use your smartphone as a portable hotspot.
Using Your Smartphone as a Mobile Hotspot
If you’re in a location that doesn’t have a hotspot and you want to connect your laptop to the Internet, you can use your phone as a mobile Wi-Fi hotspot through a process called “tethering.”
This allows your laptop to access the Internet and share your smartphone’s data connection.
While the set-up steps vary depending on your smartphone and your Internet service provider, you can usually find the instructions in your phone’s Settings or Manage Connections menu.
For security, you’ll want to make sure that you use a Wi-Fi password so that nearby Internet users can’t access your phone or laptop.
Also, be aware that tethering your laptop to your phone will use your phone’s data allowance; so be sure to keep an eye on your usage to avoid any overage fees.
Now that you’re connected, that’s it, right?
Well, not exactly.
You should be aware that while using Wi-Fi hotspots is a convenient way to stay connected with work, family, and friends.
Hotspot connectivity also presents some security risks.
Hotspot Security
One of the risks of being connected to the Internet is that the very technologies that help us keep up with our work and personal lives can be vulnerable to hackers and identity thieves.
When looking for a public Wi-Fi hotspot, be sure to connect your smartphone or laptop only to reputable providers—for example, the hotel’s or coffee shop’s wireless network.
Be wary about connecting to hotspots that have misspellings such as Bongo instead of Boingo, as hackers sometimes use these seemingly innocent names to lure busy users who aren’t paying close attention.
It’s also possible for hackers to distribute malware (software that can damage or disable your computer) through an unsecured Wi-Fi connection, especially if you are using a file-sharing program over the same network.
Virtual Private Network (VPN)
If you have security concerns about using a public Wi-Fi hotspot, you could consider creating a virtual private network (VPN), which allows you to use to the Internet through an encrypted connection.
While this can deter hackers because your data is encrypted, be aware that it will slow down your Internet access because of the processing power required to encrypt and decrypt your transmitted data.
Find a VPN Solution that Works
If you’re interested in using a VPN to safeguard yourself online:
Invest in a monthly service.
This is one of the most commonly used solutions.
Make sure to do your research before you buy.
Consider purchasing a VPN-enabled router.
There are several models on the market that make setting up your own VPN easy.
With more than 9 billion Wi-Fi-enabled mobile devices expected to be in use by the end of the year, the importance of hotspots and Wi-Fi in our lives really can’t be overstated.
If you have ever accidentally deleted a file or deleted the contents of a file, you know that it can be incredibly frustrating, and it’s even more frustrating when it’s something you have been working on for days, weeks, or even months.
Fortunately, deleting a file may not be the end of the world.
In fact, in many cases the file is hiding in the recycle bin and can be easily retrieved.
Look in the Recycle Bin
Just double-click on the Recycle Bin or trashcan and you can see everything that's inside.
Did you find what you thought you had deleted?
Simply drag it back onto your desktop, and you are good to go.
If it's not in your trashcan, then there are a number of other things you can try to recover a deleted file.
Hopefully you have been doing backups.
If so, you can recover an earlier version of your file through the recovery service in backup.
It might be a day old, but it’s better to lose a day than lose everything.
How to Recover Deleted Files Using File History
If you are not doing backups, hopefully you have turned on File History Backup.
If you're running Windows* 10, select the Start button, select Settings > Update & security > Backup > Add a drive, and then choose an external drive or network location for your backups.
To Restore That Important Missing File or Folder:
Type Restore files in the search box on the taskbar, and then select Restore your files with File History.
Look for the file you need, then use the arrows to see all its versions.
When you find the version you want, select Restore to save it in its original location.
To save it in a different place, press and hold (or right-click) Restore, select Restore to, and then choose a new location.
No Backups?
If you don’t have any backups and your file is not in the trash, you might want to try one of the many file recovery programs out there, either a free one or a commercial app like Piriform Recuva*, or Stellar Data Recover*.
Another option is Disk Drill*, a recovery tool originally designed for Mac* and now available for Windows.
It offers help with partition loss, hard drive reformatting, failed boot-ups, accidental deletions, and more.
Another possibility to consider: Have you emailed the file to anyone?
Have you saved a copy on a cloud-based service like DropBox*, iCloud*, or SkyDrive*?
If so, you might be able to grab a copy from there.
Again, even if you lose the most recent changes, it is better than nothing.
However you approach it, there are lots of options to explore after you realize you have accidentally deleted a photo, document, spreadsheet, report, or other file.
And get those backups going too, so next time you need to find a deleted file, you have more options.
For new computer options, visit Computer Systems and Devices.
It is the best place to find a whole range of Intel-powered computer systems.
The tool is easy to use and can help you decide which new computer fits your needs.
Thinking about getting a new computer, but not sure how to download music onto it?
Don’t despair.
There are a variety of ways to get new music on to your computer or other device so you can listen to your favorite music any time you’re in the mood.
You have two options:
You can download music directly to your device, or;
You can use a streaming or cloud-based service to listen to music that acts like a custom radio station of just your favorite tunes.
Each method has its pros and cons.
How to Download Music
Downloading means it takes up space on your device, but it's always available whether you are online or not.
This solution works great when you're traveling or where you might not have a reliable (or free) Internet connection.
With no worries about connectivity, you can relax and enjoy the music.
A couple of options for downloading music free are MP3Jam*, and Frostwire*.
Great apps and easy to work with.
Just download the app, search for your favorite music, then download your favorite songs or albums to your device.
Now you are ready to listen and enjoy.
How to Stream Music
Streaming gives you access to an infinite playlist and some of the most popular sites to stream music from are Pandora*, and Spotify*.
Being able to listen to whatever you want is great, but if you don’t have an Internet connection, it’s a no go.
For your Kindle*, you can use the Pandora app if you’re on a Wi-Fi network.
That way you can listen to music while you’re reading an ebook without worrying about the relatively small storage capacity of the Amazon Kindle devices.
On the iPad* there are a number of options: You can use iTunes* to listen to purchased music or stream music directly from Pandora or Spotify.
There are also tons of Internet-based radio stations.
An app like I Heart Radio* lets you listen to your favorite radio stations without a tuner, whether it’s island music from Miami, indie rock from Los Angeles, or jazz from New Orleans.
An iPhone* works exactly like an iPad, so if you're online or want to use your network, you can use Pandora, Spotify, or Internet radio.
Have music downloaded?
iTunes works great, especially in shuffle mode.
If you have a smartphone with Android*, it is mostly the same except there is no iTunes.
Instead, you can also use apps like JetAudio* or PowerAmp* in addition to Pandora, and Spotify.
It is just as easy, and you can still grab I Heart Radio if that's your preference.
Downloading or Streaming: The Choice Is Yours
If you want to listen to music, there really are a lot of great options, whether you're on a smartphone, tablet, or the newest 2 in 1 device.
Happy Listening!
Laptop vs. desktop used to be about sacrificing portability or high performance.
Now you can pick a computer exactly suited for your needs.
In days past, choosing the best computer technology was often an exercise of frustrating tradeoffs—would you rather have more battery life or lower cost, a larger screen, or greater portability?
Today, choosing between laptop vs. desktop has shifted from settling for less to maximizing your choices:
With continual improvement in technology, and more options than ever, you can choose the perfect computer that fits your individual needs.
Laptop vs. Desktop: The Basic (But No Longer Set In Stone) Division
Back in 2008, laptop sales passed desktops for the first time, and portable devices have entrenched themselves even further as their power increased and prices dropped.
Desktops have by no means disappeared, though.
Like everything else in computing, the right choice depends on how you're going to use the device.
The general division between the two classes of computers goes like this:
Laptops suit an on-the-go world.
They can be unplugged from an external power source, and taken with you.
Typically, they take up less space and don't require you to purchase a separate monitor.
Desktops have plenty of positives on their side, as well.
Typically, desktops offer more power and expandability at a lower cost
They're also easier to upgrade, repair, and customize, which is why they often remain the choice for serious gamers.
They also tend to come with better speakers, more peripheral options, and larger keyboards.
That said, there are no hard and fast rules anymore.
Some new mini-desktop computers are as small and inconspicuous as laptops.
And nowadays, laptops can offer the same power and performance as you can get from almost any desktop.
All-in-One: Turning PCs on Their Side
The capabilities of today's desktop computer have evolved considerably.
The clearest example of this can be seen in the All-in-One (AIO) computer, which turns the idea of the PC on its side—literally.
AIOs blur the lines between desktops and laptops with a large touch screen and a built-in battery so you can easily prop it up, lay it down, or unplug it and move it to any room in the house.
These computers can even be mounted on the wall to create, stream, and share HD content, play online games as a family, or listen to music.
All-in-One PCs can cost more than the traditional desktop and be more difficult to upgrade, but they provide a space-saving, stylish alternative to the traditional home computer.
2 in 1: The Height of Versatility
The flexibility of modern computers is demonstrated by 2 in 1s, laptops that can switch between traditional clamshell mode, tablet model, and other positions, such as standing up like a tent.
2 in 1s come with screens that can be detached completely or flexible screens that can bend back 360 degrees.
The bend-back screens are aimed at people who primarily want a laptop experience, while the detachable units fit people who mostly want to use a 2 in 1 as a tablet.
Whether you use your computer to watch movies, study, run your small business, or perform any other task, there is a perfect choice to fit your needs.
Consider how you are going to use the computer and what you need in terms of portability, performance, flexibility, monitor size, and price—and then go shopping!
Today’s computer shopper has a choice of two great software platform standards in Windows and Mac, but lines have blurred between the types of hardware, which generally share Intel® CPUs.
In computing circles, “PC vs. Mac” has long been a topic of debate—advocates on both sides felt so intense that it was better to steer clear of the subject unless you were up for a furious debate.
While Macs and PCs still both have passionate followings, the differences between the two types of computers have dramatically lessened over the years.
The result is your decision comes down to subtle preferences—but you really can’t go wrong with either choice
It has become less a matter of hardware and software than of style and personal taste.
The Ecosystem: Do You Think Less Is More or More Is More?
When you buy a Mac, you’re buying a philosophy as much as a piece of computer technology.
The same company produces the hardware and software, and the computers share an aesthetic sensibility with Apple* phones and tablets.
Mac offers just six computer styles with a limited choice of configurations—a “best of the best approach” that eliminates the need to wade through an excessive amount of options.
If you don’t like deliberating over RAM, disk space, and other hardware components, Mac does much of the work for you.
With PCs, roughly a dozen major manufacturers produce the hardware, and most run the Windows operating system.
You can have hundreds of choices of style and configurations, allowing you to find exactly what you want, though it may take more time and deliberation.
Whether more is more or less is often in the eye of the beholder.
Price: Look Beyond the Price Tag
Macs have long carried a reputation for premium pricing compared to PCs, though advocates would say that was simply the cost of higher-end components that provide better performance and reliability.
Making an apples-to-apples comparison on price for PC vs. Mac has always been difficult, though, because PCs and Macs typically have different pre-installed software and components, such as graphics cards, ports, and processor speed.
The standard model Macs tend to offer less memory and hard drive space, so you need to take the specs into consideration.
Because of their lower cost, PCs have often been the choice for people who needed basic computing functions, like word processing and web surfing, while creative professionals who perform tasks such as design or video editing have been willing to shell out extra money for the apple of their eye.
That said, the premium for the Apple know-how has shrunk to a couple of hundred bucks, making price a smaller consideration.
Maintenance: Are You a Troubleshooter?
Just as Macs offer a narrow number of choices, the systems tend to stay as they are – typically only the hard drive and RAM can be upgraded.
PCs, coming in so many models from so many vendors, usually allow any of the individual hardware components to be switched out, from the central processing unit (CPU) to the displays.
Whether that matters may depend on how you use the computer, how long you plan to keep it, and whether you are adept at handling some of your own maintenance.
Because Apple makes both the hardware and software, you have one primary place to turn when you have an issue, and issues can usually be resolved quickly.
With PCs, different vendors make the hardware and software, and problem solving can be more complicated.
Partly for this season, Apple has always received high marks from Mac owners for customer service.
Software: Your Choice May Be Up In the Clouds
In the past, it was easy to pick a Mac or PC based on the type of software you needed.
Business productivity tools were domain of the Windows operating system, while editing, photo and other creativity apps were clearly a Mac world.
And though the PC tends to dominate in the workplace, many software programs for professional use—including Microsoft* Office and the Adobe* Creative Suite—have versions for both operating systems.
The software has also become a smaller issue as many people no longer load software on their computer but maintain subscriptions for software they can access via the cloud.
If you stream videos on YouTube, for example, your browser doesn’t care what type of computer or operating system you’re using.
Playing Games: Close the Window on This One
Gamers have always flocked to PCs, and that won’t change anytime soon.
PCs can now stream games from Xbox One and PlayStation 4, and the number of titles available on a PC dwarf the Mac.
So if gaming is more than just fun and games in your house, the PC wins hands-down.
Getting Touchy-Feely: PCs Emphasize Speech and Touch
For all the passion of Mac users, PC advocates can now honestly say they have a more touchy-feely relationship with their computers.
Recent versions of the Windows operating system have embraced touch and speech, such as the new feature Cortana* in Windows* 10, which enables voice commands to schedule appointments.
Apple has integrated its voice recognition software, Siri, into its desktop models but has been resistent to introduce a touch feature into its operating system, OS* X.
So if you prefer speaking to your computer, or moving your finger across the screen, to a keyboard and mouse, PCs offer a clear advantage.
Security: Mac Still Gets the Nod
At one time, PCs were known for frequent crashes, but the Windows operating system has become significantly more reliable.
While Mac hardware and software is denoted by its stability, the difference here has lessened.
The odds of getting a virus or malware with a PC remain higher than with a Mac, but this is more about the numbers game than technology.
About 7.5% of the computers in use are Mac, according to IDC, so hackers spend more time and creativity attacking PCs.
That said, a sprinkling of Mac-attacks have begun to appear, such as last year’s Keyranger ransomware which attacked the OS* X operating system and encrypted all files on a hard drive until users paid an extortion fee.
The proper antivirus program and other safeguards will keep either system safe, but PCs will be at greater risk.
The Choice:
PCs and Macs do offer some clear-cut differences; which of those differences are the most important is something that each person has to decide for his or herself.
Due to price and availability, PCs tend to be the winner, while Macs remain the choice for the more elite or anti-Windows computer users.
Either way, you can’t really go wrong.
It truly is the golden age of computers.
Improvement of Post Peak Behavior of Light Weight Foam Soil with Polypropylene Fiber
This paper presents the improvement of lightweight foam mixed soil (LFS) with polypropylene fibers in soft clay area.
The study emphasizes the reducing brittle property and increasing the ductile behavior in material.
A series of the unconfined compression test was conducted on LFS samples with different polypropylene fibers 0, 1, 2, 3 and 4%, cement content 100, 150 and 200 kg/m3.
The unit weight of samples was set with 8, 10 and 12 kN/m3, and different fibers lengths were 6 and 12 mm.
The curing time of 7 and 28 days were conducted, respectively.
The results found that the adding fibers seem better performance on the deformation characteristic where the post-peak behavior could be enhanced as by increasing of the toughness and the residual strength with increasing fiber content, and the reduction rate on loss of post-peak.
However, the influence of fiber content and the length of fiber has insignificant effect on the increasing the value of unconfined compressive strength.
Effects of Sound Absorption on Acoustics Quality in Classrooms
The objective of this study is to investigate the relationships between the percentage of absorbing surface area to the total surface area of a classroom and three different acoustical indexes of the room.
This paper is the experimental research that investigated six large classrooms of a public university in Thailand that were as large as 288–566 cubic meters.
These lecture rooms, each belonged to the faculty of engineering, architecture, agriculture, science, industrial education and information technology of KMITL, were investigated in the following manners: the width, depth, and height of each room, as well as the dimensions of the curtains and blinds.
Measurements of the Background Noise Level (BNL), Reverberation Time (RT) and Speech Transmission Index (STI) followed ANSI S12.60 standard.
These measurements yielded the percentage of the absorbing surface areas to the total surface areas (PAS).
Then, the BNL, RT, and STI were obtained by generating test sounds with a sound generator.
The results show the relationship between PAS and STI, RT, BN.
STI increased by 6.12–20.39%, but RT and BNL decreased by 1.45–16.54% and 1.5–3.0%, respectively, as PAS increased.
Moreover, Pearson correlation analysis determined the relationships between PAS and the three indexes at 99% confidence level.
The relationship between PAS and STI was significant at r = 0.617 as well as PAS and RT was significant at r = –0.557 but the correlation between PAS and BNL was insignificant at this confidence level.
Thailand 4.0 Policy Perception among Residents in Chiang Mai and Lampang Provinces
The purpose of this study is to investigate people’s understanding of the government’s Thailand 4.0 policy vision among people living within Chiang Mai and Lampang provinces.
Questionnaires were administered for data gathering from the subjects (n=544).
The frequency distribution, percentages, Chi square test and the Multivariate General Linear Model were applied in statistical analysis.
As results, 65.9 percent of respondents had a moderate level of knowledge related to the concept while 34.1 percent reported their least understanding.
The majority (66.4) percent demonstrated a moderate level of overall knowledge on living in the revolutionary time of Industry 4.0, the counterpart (33.6 percent) showed the least awareness about the domain.
Furthermore, 65.3 percent exposed a moderate level of comprehension on “Thailand 4.0 education” whereas the remaining 34.7 percent indicated their lowest level of understanding.
The Chi-Square test was conduct to determine existing relationships between sex, age, education, occupation and the dependent variable, i.e. understanding of Thailand 4.0.
Correspondingly, significant relationships were found between them.
The multivariate general linear model revealed the inverse linear associations between independent variables (sex , age, career) and different aspects of understanding on Thailand 4.0.
Peak Flow Prediction Using an Antecedent Precipitation Index Method in Loei River Basin
This study aimed to establish the relationship between an Antecedent Precipitation Index (API) and runoff discharge in Loei River Basin in order to forecast the maximum peak flow in the area.
The study area covers an upstream watershed area of Amphoe Muang Loei, Loei Province with the total drainage area of 1,276 km2.
The data used for the analysis consists of hourly rainfall data from 8 rain gauge stations and hourly discharge data from 4 runoff measuring stations collected from 2009 to 2012.
The rainfall data and runoff data of 2009 is used to find a relationship equation between API and discharge.
The relationship equations show that the predicted peak discharge is accurate with the measured data with an error of 0.2–15%.
Flood hydrographs of the runoff measuring stations are computed using the relationship equations.
The computed flood hydrographs were reliable prediction.
However, the computed peak flow period occurs earlier than the existing data.
The proposed equation, and , can be used to predict peak flow during flood period of Wang Saphung District and Muang District, Loie Province, respectively.
Integration of Blockchain to Cloud Computing in e-Portfolio
The technology application for education has carried on from the past to present and has more obviously seen when e-Learning has proposed to support teaching and learning around 1990s.
It is the new approach in education to rise up learning quality effectively and efficiency.
But, when the 21st century has reached, there have been two new technologies changing that affect business and industry around the world resulting in reorganization again.
The first technology is the cloud computing technology that changes organization processing pattern for a better effective cost and the second technology is the blockchain technology causing a big change on global financial business.
This paper has proposed the way to bring both technologies for applying to education by using Blockchain to create a confidence of e-Portfolio transaction via cloud computing resource that facilitate to develop system in platform as a service (PaaS) and enable the integration between e-Portfolio and Blockchain.
Adsorption Methylene Blue Dye by Chitosan Flake: Equilibrium and Applied to Use for Industrial Factory
The equilibrium adsorption of methylene blue dye onto chitosan flake has been studied in the batch adsorption model of Langmuir, Freundlich and Dubinin-Radushkevich isotherms.
The effect of initial concentration in range 24.4–110.2 mg/L was studied.
It was found that tendency of adsorption capacity increased with increasing initial concentration of methylene blue.
The adsorption energy was determined by Dubinin-Radushkevich constant.
In addition, an equilibrium adsorption capacity of sorption has been evaluated with Langmuir isotherm and operating line methods which can be applied for industrial factory very well.
At flow rate 1 m3/hr, removal of methylene blue and amount to use of chitosan flake was 7.2 g/hr and 2.0 kg/hr, respectively.
The Impact of Frequency System Change from Electrical Disturbance in Power Substation: A Case Study of MEA Power System
In the Metropolitan Electricity Authority (MEA)’s power distribution system, there Is the possibility of power failure several times due to the under frequency relay operating only on a single power substation causing temporary blackout in that local area while others power substations nearby are still working.
which is still the unsolved problem.
This paper studies the factor of electrical disturbance by modeling power transmission systems with simulation and analysis of power system transients (ATP-EMTP) by simulating the actual distribution system in the power stations of the Metropolitan Electricity Authority to cause under frequency relay works which are:
1) Harmonic in the electrical system,
2) Switching in the presence of a fault and 3) The result of the circuit breaker operation on the substation.
The results from the electrical system model found that electrical disturbances caused by harmonic effects in the electrical system do not affect the frequency of the electrical system, electrical disturbances caused by the circuit breaker operating at the substation resulted in frequency shift decrease by 10.72% and the the electrical system switching by closed / opened circuit breakers while having a fault resulted in frequency shift decrease by 27.2%.
Estimating the Population Mean Using Searls Approach
The Searls approach was employed to develop the estimation of population mean based on the coefficient of variation of the known population.
This approach leads to a higher efficiency of the Searls estimator than that of the traditional one.
This article presents the Searls approach’s methods and provides examples of the population mean estimators using the Searls approach: the estimator using the Searls approach for simple random sampling without replacement and the estimator using the Searls approach for single-stage cluster sampling with simple random sampling without replacement
Performance of SWAT Hydrologic Model for Runoff Simulation in Wang River Basin
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficiency of SWAT hydrological model for runoff simulation in Wang River Basin.
The input data includes the daily meteorological observation data during the year 2004–2013, land-use of the year 2009 and topographical data.
The analyses were divided the whole basin into 18 sub-basins and defined the basin outlets at 10 stations of observed daily runoff data to calibrate the SWAT model.
In addition, the basin physical parameters including surface water, groundwater, watershed, soil, and channel flow, have been adjusted to improve the efficiency of the model in the runoff simulation.
The results showed that the SWAT model was effective in simulating the runoff of the Wang River Basin, especially in the non-dam sub-basin and the end of the Wang River Basin.
The model is appropriate to simulate the runoff during the wet season rather than the dry season.
However, the SWAT model has limitations on the maximum monthly runoff model, especially in the month of flood problem, the maximum monthly runoff from the model was lower than the observed value.
Many-Objective Car Sequencing Problem on Mixed-model Two-sided Assembly Lines
A Multi-objective Evolutionary Algorithm based on Decomposition (MOEA/D) is an evolutionary metaheuristic which has been developed to solve Many-Objective Optimization Problems (MaOPs).
The concept of searching for answers is to decompose the original problem into subproblems for finding the optimal solution of each subproblem.
This study proposes a MOEA/D compared with a Multi-Objective Differential Evolution algorithm (MODE) in order to solve many-objective car sequencing problem on twosided assembly lines which is classified as a MaOPs and be non-deterministic polynomial hard problem (NP-Hard problem) due to complexity and a large number of solutions.
Five objectives were simultaneously evaluated, including the minimal number of color changes, of vehicle violations, along with the minimum amount of unfinished production, of total idle time of the line, and of total variation in rate of production.
The experiments showed that MOEA/D has better aspects of convergence performance and time consumption than MODE counterpart.
The Supply Chain of Materials in Construciton Works of Prachin Buri Province
The supply chain of construction work materials in non-permanent forms and the construction process that has no absolute typical processes results in diverse and unique logistics processes.
This study presents the implementation of the supply chain for construction materials in Prachin Buri province in Thailand.
Included in the discussion is a list of activities and the time frame that occurred between the contractor and material supplier regarding 3 types of construction material trading.
The results revealed that the type of material directly affected the time employed for each activity.
In addition, the critical path method analysis, which considered the sequence and relationship among activities, demonstrated that the amount of time that each party employed was influenced by the performance of the other party.
Therefore, in increasing the efficiency of the supply chain, it might be necessary to adopt the supply chain management model from the manufacturing industry, where each party is involved in the operations of the other relevant parties.
Furthermore, studying the supply chain or scheduling of the logistics process should take into account the type or nature of materials in conjunction with the efficiency of each party involved.
Pre-steaming Technique on Paddy Soaking Process to Improve Parboiling Production Time
The soaking operation in parboiling process was time consuming and predominantly controlled the parboiling process.
In the present study, the soaking operation was improved to reduce time consumption of the parboiling process by pre-steaming the paddy prior to soaking.
Chainat 1 paddy variety was used as a test material, having initial moisture at approximately 13.5–14% (db).
The paddy was blown with saturated steam at 102°C for 2, 7, 17 and 32 min.
Then, the paddy was soaked in 70°C water for 6 h.
The initial moisture content of pre-steaming paddy was thus about 1.5 times higher than that of non-treatment.
After soaking, paddy was shade dried at ambient temperature until its moisture content reached 14–16% (db).
Head rice yield of soaked paddy from the process with pre-steaming was higher than that from the counterpart without pre-steaming.
The head rice yield level of soaked paddy increased with an increase in soaking time.
However, when the soaking time reached 5 and 6 h, head rice yield of the paddy, which underwent longer pre-steaming time for 17 and 32 min, decreased.
In addition, pre-steaming before soaking caused whiteness index and white belly to decrease.
The paddy undergoing 17 min pre-steaming with 3 h soaking and 32 min pre-steaming with 2 h soaking could maintain similar degree of gelatinization to the one undertaking only 4 h soaking.
Confidence Intervals for the Difference between Two Proportions by Sampling Importance Resampling Algorithm
Confidence intervals for the difference between two proportions (p1 – p2) have gained interest by statisticians from the past to present.
Several researchers have proposed and compared this type of confidence intervals.
Nowadays, computers play an important role in computational statistics.
Methods of confidence interval constructions could employ algorithms instead of direct analytical method.
In this research, Sampling Importance Resampling (SIR) algorithm frequently found in Bayesian statistics is applied to construct the confidence intervals which are then compared to those obtained from Bayes, hybrid, and Wald confidence intervals.
The results show that confidence intervals obtained from SIR give the coverage probabilities not different from those of Bayes and hybrid methods, and theses 3 methods are superior to the Wald method in all population characteristics and sample sizes.
Because SIR algorithm directly used samples of p1 and p2, confidence intervals of p1 – p2 are definitely in [–1, +1].
In case of , SIR algorithm can still construct a confidence interval while the Wald interval cannot be calculated as the standard error is of zero.
The characteristic of population affects length of intervals such that if p1 and p2 are closed to .5 (symmetric), interval length tends to be greater than that calculated from skewed population such as p1 = p2 = .05.
To conclude, in many situations SIR algorithm can produce as good a confidence interval as Bayes and hybrid method, one of the most efficient methods in literature review.
Application of Artificial Neural Networks with Fast Fourier Transform for Waveform Analysis and Classification
This research presents electrical signal waveforms analysis and classification by applying the principle and theory of supervised artificial neural network.
The input data for training and testing the network were processed by using Fast Fourier Transform.
There are three input variables and one output for the network.
From the experiment to determine the number of nodes in the hidden layer in order to obtain the optimal Mean Square Errors (MSE) for analyzing signals, the back propagation learning, training function, TrainLM and learning function along with LearnGDM were used.
The experimental result found that the best network consisted of the optimal number of nodes at 3-40-1, input nodes, hidden nodes and the output node respectively.
The transfer functions for hidden layer and output layer were logsig and purelin function respectively.
The optimal MSE of training process was 1.45E-08.
The MSE of the test was 1.54E-08, which provides the highest percentage of Efficiency Index (EI) in the testing process.
The noise levels were added to the input data for testing the effectiveness of the proposed method.
The satisfactory noise levels were not more than 5% of the input data.
From the test, it showed that the proposed artificial neural network can be used in signal pattern recognition as a means of signal fault analysis and classification.
Forecasting Cassava Starch Price in Thailand by Using Time Series Models
The purpose of this study is to forecast the cassava price in Thailand using five time series methods, which are Box-Jenkins method, Holt’s exponential smoothing method, damped trend exponential smoothing method, simple exponential smoothing method, and 3, 6, 12 month moving average methods.
The secondary data obtained from Thai Tapioca Starch Association (TTSA) between January 2009 and December 2014 are used for time-series analysis.
The data obtained from 2009 to 2013 were used to formulate the forecasting models and the data in 2014 were used to compare the performance of the forecasting methods via the criteria of the lowest mean absolute percentage error and root mean squared error.
The findings from this research indicate that under the criterion of mean absolute percentage error, the 3 month moving average method is the most accurate to forecast the cassava price in 2014.
In addition, under the criterion of root mean squared error, the simple exponential smoothing method is the most accurate. Additionally, the forecast values from both methods are reliable and no statistically significant difference was found between them.
Development of Domestic Tourists Model Using Clustering and Association Rule Techniques Case Study: Phra Nakhon Si Ayutthaya Province
The understanding of tourist needs is very complicated due to the extremely high number of tourists.
Accordingly, providers cannot tailor their products or services to better match customers' needs and demands in each segment.
This research proposes the model of domestic tourism in Phra Nakhon Si Ayutthaya province, Thailand by using machine learning techniques.
The principle aims of this research are to study the behaviors of related domestic tourists and to develop a clustering model using the combination of clustering and association rule techniques.
A data set was collected from 704 travelers who visited Phra Nakhon Si Ayutthaya.
It was cleaned and prepared for clustering by the TwoStep cluster analysis.
Then, the relevant association rules were discovered on each of these clusters.
The experimental results revealed that the dataset could be divided into 4 different clusters, including senior tourists coming with a company trip (15.63%); elderly tourists traveling with family (37.78%), employee tourists (23.58%) and those who do enjoy traveling (23.01%).
Each cluster showed as many as 8, 5, 3 and 6 association rules among their attributes with more than 80% confident.
With insight into tourist travel behaviors, those involved can get engaged in strategic planning of products and services that are tailored to meet the specific needs of each cluster.
On Fuzzy Subsets in Abel-Grassmann’s Semirings
Let R be an Abel-Grassmann’s semiring.
In this paper, we introduce the concept of a fuzzy subset, fuzzy left and fuzzy right ideals in Abel-Grassmann’s semirings, and to study fuzzy left and fuzzy right ideals in Abel-Grassmann’s semirings.
We show that a non empty subset I of R is an Abel-Grassmann’s subsemiring (left ideal, right ideal, ideal) if and only if fI (tfI) is a fuzzy Abel-Grassmann’s subsemiring (fuzzy left ideal, fuzzy right ideal, fuzzy ideal) of R.
Finally we show that f is a fuzzy Abel-Grassmann’s subsemiring (fuzzy left ideal, fuzzy right ideal, fuzzy ideal) of R if and only if U (f, t) is an Abel-Grassmann’s subsemiring (left ideal, right ideal, ideal) of R.
Bottom-spray Fluidized Bed Coating: Effect of Process Variables on Rice Kernel Coating Efficiency
The purpose of this study was to construct a small scale batch bottom-spray fluidized bed coating apparatus.
The effects of several process variables on the coating efficiency were evaluated.
Coating experiments were performed by spraying turmeric extract solution onto Jasmine rice kernels.
The experimental conditions were solution spray rates of 30, 35 and 40 mL/min, atomization pressure of 1 and 1.5 bar, spray time of 8 and 10 min, time of drying after spraying of 30 and 10 sec, superficial air velocity of 2.5 m/s, drying temperatures of 55, 60 and 65°C and 80% of recycle air.
The coated rice quality was evaluated in terms of the moisture content, color, percentage of fissure kernels and coating efficiency.
The experimental results have shown that suitable conditions for producing turmeric extract coated rice were drying temperature of 55°C, the coating solution spray rate of 40 mL/min, atomization pressure of 1.5 bar, spray time of 8 min and time of drying after spraying of 10 sec.
The color of turmeric extract coated rice was reddish-yellow.
The moisture content of turmeric extract coated rice decreased with increasing the drying temperature, coating solution spray time and time of drying after spraying.
The increase of the drying temperature and coating solution spray rate did not affect the percentage of fissure kernels.
The coating efficiency of the apparatus was in the range of 78.2–82.9%.
The Development of Biomass Fuel from Peanut Shell
This research was the development of biomass fuel from peanut shell by studying the mechanical and thermal properties of biomass fuel prepared from peanut shells with starch and rice husk were used as a binder at two hydraulic pressures of 4.5×105 and 13.2×105 lbm/ft2.
From the study, it was found that the biomass fuel under the use of high hydraulic pressure fuel had a better mechanical property than that the use of low hydraulic pressure in term of an increase in shatter index and densification 4.20% and 9%, respectively.
In contrast, the thermal property of biomass fuel used low hydraulic pressure was enhanced in term of a higher high heating value and a better thermal efficiency corresponding to the lower water penetration rate and moisture content.
Moreover, rice husk cannot use as a binder due to its cylindrical characteristic and high ash content of 19.97%.
The aim of this research project was to study the effect of intensity of electric field to inactivate microorganism and quality of milk tea after pulsed electric field pasteurization.
The experimental results were compared with these belonging to thermal pasteurization.
Quality analysis of milk tea including physical properties which were color, viscosity and sensory, chemical properties which were pH, total soluble solid, fat and protein content and biological properties in term of E. coli reduction.
The results showed that the electric field intensity of 20 kV/cm with pulse number of 1,250 was optimum.
This setting could inactivate E. coli for 5 log reduction.
The results from the analysis of physical quality including color and viscosity showed that both pasteurization gave similar value.
Chemical properties results including fat and protein contents showed that the amount of fat in milk tea by thermal pasteurization was more than the pulsed electric field while the protein contents were similar.
The main purpose of this study is efficiency of flood mitigation in Bang Prakong- Prachin Buri River Basin with Huay Sa-Mong Dam and Klong Pra Sathueng Reservoir projects employing Mathematical Models.
The Info Work ICM model was developed and calibrated for flood study in 2005, 2006 and 2013.
The scenarios for this study are existing river system and including these reservoirs in river system.
The results, discharges, were compared at 3 gauging stations; KGT.3, KGT.6 and KGT.1.
As the result, the discharges at KGT.3 were decrease by 26.97, 54.31 and 37.36 m3/s in 2005, 2006 and 2013, respectively or equal to 4.88%, 9.59% and 5.12%.
The discharges at KGT.6 also decreased by 24.62, 30.80 and 60.89 m3/s in 2005, 2006 and 2013, respectively or equal to 4.30%, 4.94% and 6.79%.
For the last station, KGT.1, the discharges decreased by 25.27, 38.21 and 19.60 m3/s in 2005, 2006 and 2013, respectively or equal to 3.62%, 5.42%.and 2.96%.
In conclusions, the study described that Huay Sa-Mong Dam and Klong Pra Sathueng Reservoirs revealed effectiveness of flood damage mitigation.
However, the measure effectiveness still depends on the characteristics and distribution of rainfall in the basin.
Thus, appropriate measures focusing on flood mitigation and preparedness should also be taken into account.
Evaluation of Groundwater Requirement of Groundwater Development Project for Agriculture: A Case Study of Nong Boon Mak District, Na
To provide adequate amount of irrigation water, as a supplement to rain water for abundant is a key factor to increase crop yield.
Therefore, evaluation of the water resources potential, in particular water from the underground sources appears to be the key first step to improve the overall crop production.
This study was conducted in 2 villages in Nong Boon Mak District, Nakhon Ratchasima Province.
The chosen villages are Baan Daan Kor Jod and Baan Saeng Thong.
Crop water requirement of the former group of farmers is for cassavagrowing areas (106 rai); where as the latter group needs water for the areas of cassava (46 rai) and corn as livestock feed (14 rai).
Groundwater yield capacity was estimated by different methods including groundwater yield map, hydrological survey using resistivity method and pumping test.
It was found that groundwater capacity is 14 and 16 m3/hr at Baan Daan Kor Jod and Baan Saeng Thong.
The comparison results of the water requirements and groundwater supply capacity based on water balance concept confirm the feasibility of groundwater-based irrigation development project.
In cope with interannual variability of rainfall and insufficient groundwater storage, production planning can be adjusted by shifting planting schedule or reducing growing area.
Biodiesel Production from Tung Oil and Its Effects on Diesel Engine Performance and Emission Characteristics
This paper presents the biodiesel production from Tung oil, prepared by transesterification using potassium hydroxide (KOH) as catalyst.
Biodiesel properties was also investigated.
Engine performance and emission tests were conducted on a single-cylinder diesel engine fueled with Tung oil biodiesel blends (BD10, BD20, BD30, BD50 and B100) compared with conventional diesel (B7) fuel at a full-load engine speed range of 1,200–2,000 rpm with intervals of 200 rpm.
The Tung oil biodiesel contained the fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) of 97.38% wt., viscosity of 7.46 cSt at 40°C, acid value of 0.41 mg KOH/g and a heating value of 42.53 MJ/kg.
The experimental results showed that the increase of Tung oil biodiesel blend ratio decreased in torque, power and thermal efficiency (B100 showed average decrease 7.57%, 7.49% and 13.72%, respectively) but increased a specific fuel consumption (B100 showed an average increase 16.92%) compared to diesel.
Exhaust gas emission results indicated that diesel blend of increasing Tung oil biodiesel gave a reduction in carbon monoxide (CO) but an increase in carbon dioxide (CO2) and oxides of nitrogen (NOX).
Sulphur dioxide (SO2) has not been detected all of fuel blends.
The Influence of NaOH Concentration on Compressive Strength of Fly Ash Concrete
This research studied the influence of NaOH concentration on the compressive strength of fly ash concrete.
Fly ash was used to replace Portland cement type I at the percentages of 40, 50, and 60 by weight of binder.
Sodium hydroxide (NaOH) solution was introduced as an alkaline activator at various molar concentrations of 0.00, 0.25, 0.50, and 0.75 molar.
Concrete cube specimens of 100×100×100 mm3 had been cast.
The specimens were cured in tab water for 3, 7, 14, 28, and 60 days and their compressive strengths were determined.
Based on the results, compressive strength of fly ash concretes tended to increase as the concentration of NaOH solution increase for no more than 0.50 molar.
Higher amount of fly ash in concretes also reduced their compressive strengths and a greater reduction was found in concretes without any activator of NaOH solution.
In summary, the use of NaOH solution at 0.50 molar concentration in concrete containing fly ash at 50% by weight of binder would be optimal due to its highest compressive strength, which was 22% higher than that of the control concrete.
The Development of Hazardous Route Map in Thailand
The aim of this research paper is to test the possibility of combining the navigation system with the data collected to show Thailand’s black spots for people traveling by car.
The study uses the rate-quality control method to analyze the statistical data collected between B.E.
2551–2554 in order to show Thailand’s most dangerous roads.
This research has improved the Global Positioning System device with the most functional and user-friendly interface to warn drivers of the accident spots where they are most at risk of being involved in an accident.
The result of this research shows that the system has the capability to detect hazardous driving events and warn drivers of the potential dangers from the 1 km distance to the incident black spot.
Concrete Block from Recycled Asphalt Concrete
This research aims to examine the use of stone dust from recycled asphalt concrete aggregate in concrete block products.
The mixture ratio of portland cement type1: stone dust or recycled asphalt concrete aggregate: water is 1: 6 : 0.4 by weight.
Types of stone dust from recycled asphalt concrete aggregate and limestone mine (general aggregate) are compared in concrete block properties.
The concrete block samples are cast in 7×19×39 cubic centimeter of dimension with a concrete block molding machine.
The concrete block sample testing follows the TIS 58-2530 on non-load bearing concrete blocks.
As results, the compressive strength and water absorption of recycled asphalt concrete are lower than general concrete blocks.
All samples can classify as the standard so it can be used as material for a wall.
All samples have passed the TIS standard.
Thus, concrete blocks from recycled asphalt concrete can be used for wall construction purposes.
The purposes of this study were to develop a confidence interval of different median for two Population with Free-distributions by Price Bonett Boostrap-t method and compare the perfomance of the proposed Price Bonett Boostrap-t method with other methods.
Simulation by the Monte Carlo technique is repeated 5,000 times in the case of calculation of median confidence intervals using the bootstrap technique.
The rounds of random sampling with the bootstrap method are 5,000 times, which simulates both data from the population with free-distributions and the size of each sample by using the R program.
The results indicated that the Price Bonett Boostrap-t method performance was better than the Price Bonett method and Percentile Bootstrap method which were 17 from 24 situations of this study.
Flatness Improvement of Fiber-Cement Flat Sheet Using Split Plot Experiment with Uncontrollable Factor
Currently, the flatness of fiber-cement flat sheets produced from the selected factory does not meet the customer's specification (8–10.55 μm).
This leads to many customer claims, of which the estimating costs may reach 100,000 baht per month approximately.
This paper aims to determine an optimal factor setting of fiber-cement flat sheet process to deal with the issue.
Based on the study, the factors concerned are feeding speed, roll gap, roll pressure, and relative humidity.
A split-plot design is then selected since the feeding speed is a hard-to-change factor.
The relative humidity is treated as a covariate factor in the experiment since it is known but still uncontrollable.
The result shows that the feeding speed, roll gap and pressure, and relative humidity should be set as 60 m/s, 7 mm, 90 bar, and 27.98% respectively.
The flatness obtained from this setting is about 8.73 μm. Based on the setting, the factory can improve the flatness and can handle the claim cost caused by the flatness problem as well.
This applied research was conducted by employing both methods from a quantitative research and a qualitative one in the innovative ways.
The research investigates on the satellite data of four bands sent from SMMS (Small Multi−Mission Satellite).
Each band was analyzed to create color composition indices of the Western areas of Thailand.
The four bands consisted of Band 1 (Blue Band) which had a wavelength of between 0.43−0.52 micrometers, Band 2 (Green Band) which had a wavelength of between 0.52−0.60 micrometers, Band 3 (Red Band) which had a wavelength of between 0.63−0.69 micrometers, and Band 4 (Near Infrared Band) which had a wavelength of between 0.76−0.90 micrometers.
Then, the satellite data were three−layered overlaid in non−repeated arrangements.
Any band showing grayscale would have been substituted by 3 additive primary colors which were blue, green, and red.
The arrangements were permutated into 24 indices: 123, 124, 132, 134, 142, 143, 213, 214, 231, 234, 241, 243, 312, 314, 321, 324, 341, 342, 412, 413, 421, 423, 431 and 432.
Predictive Maintenance for Centrifugal Pumps in Pulp Industry
Centrifugal pumps are commonly used in the process for making paper pulp.
Pump failure may result in the production process disruption.
Maintenance and troubleshooting of centrifugal pumps play a key role in reducing such failure.
Despite all the care in preventive maintenance, some unexpected failures can still be found.
Generally the failure are caused by unrelated timetable for typical inspection and 3 equipment parameters, i.e. the priority queue, a pump’s operational lifetime and workload.
This research aims to determine the appropriate time period recommended for pump inspection through predictive maintenance and pump vibration analysis as to determine its mechanical condition.
The relationships between the vibration values obtained and the three main parameters were carried out.
Studying steps are 1) grouping the pumps by these parameters; 2) measuring the vibration of the bearing, and then observing its changes for a reliable prediction of upcoming inspection periods; 3) performance monitoring and inspecting based on the of the forecast period.
As potential problems are identified, preventive maintenance can be be administered and performed properly; 4) calculating the Mean Time Between Failures (MTBF) and the Mean Time To Repair (MTTR).
The results show that the proper time periods for regular inspection and maintenance are every 7 days, every 15 days and every 30 days.
As the procedures were completed as the indicated time, the MTBF of the pumps in water treatment unit was found to increase to 724 hours (50.16%), and the MTTR of pumps in Brownstock unit reduced to 12.02 minutes (13.19%).
Intelligence Online System for Automatic Route Planning by Using Genetic Algorithm
This research proposes the application of genetic algorithms to create online automated routes by using the distributer staff’s routes to analyze and improve the distribution routes in the transportation system in Udon Thani province in Thailand in order to determine the best and shortest routes, the lowest cost, and the shortest and most convenient period of time in order to serve the customer needs by using minimal resources.
The distributor staff will define a delivery destinations according to the number of packages.
Then the system’s process begins to find the best routes to travel to all of the desired destinations by using a genetic algorithm.
The research effectiveness was tested by comparing the algorithm’s search with the Greedy Best First Search, the A*search and the manual search by the distributer staff who are experts in delivery.
The results revealed that the method proposed can handle the deliveries better than the other methods both in terms of the distance and time.
The user satisfaction test result was at the good level.
The tests indicated that the proposed method is able to determine the proper route effectively and is a suitable tool for helping the distributor staff to work more efficiently.
Behaviour of Structural Composite Hybrid Panels Under Combined Bending and Axial Compression Loads
This research deals with performance studies of load bearing hybrid composite walls under combined bending and axial compression loads developed at Rajamangala University of Technology Tawan-Ok.
The hybrid composite wall consists of fiber cement board as a sandwich-board and light-weight foamed concrete mixed with Expandable Polystyrene foam (EPS) in waffle-arrangement as a core material.
The testing programme includes sixteen structural composite panels and were tested under a combination of axial compression and flexural bending loads.
Tested specimens were divided into two types; type A - without a steel skeleton and type B - with a cold-form C75×45 skeleton placed in the middle of the panel.
Based on the test results, it was found that deflections of panels type A were higher than that of specimen type B due to the presence of a steel skeleton.
The maximum failure loads of panel specimen type B exhibited higher loads than that of specimen type A.
This is because the presence of cold-form steel in specimen type B caused a higher stiffness and thus a higher load bearing capacity.
Moreover, it is also found that the serviceability loads of panel type A and type B are 1.22 kN and 2.04 kN, respectively.
Based on the analysis of the test results, the P-M interaction diagram can be obtained by considering the reduction factor for the design procedure.
For conservative design, the reduction factor (ϕ) = 0.3 is recommended by comparing the ratio between serviceability load and load at failure which are 31.2% and 36.7% for specimens type A and type B, respectively.
Analysis of Impact of Climate Change on Forest Fire Potential in Chiang Mai by Using of Regression Model
This study aims to analyze the impact of climate change on future forest fire potential in Chiang Mai Province, analyzed by regression analysis with the linear and non-linear approach.
Following the approach used to observe weather data and burn scar area from both MODIS sensor and forest fire hotspot.
In a part of burn area trend analysis in the future used absolute humidity data from WRF-ECHAM5 model, which used into following regression model.
The result of the comparative analysis, nonlinear regression models are more flexible and appropriate than linear regression analysis.
Climatic factors that can be applied to the regression equation are relative humidity only.
While other climate variables could not be imported because the results were not statistically unacceptable.
When applied the acceptable nonlinear regression model with the relative humidity data from the WRF-ECHAM5 regional climate model, it was found that relative humidity decreased by 1.3%, and there is high yearly variation in relative humidity, which leads to the decrease in the forest fires potential in the future when the modeled relative humidity is applied to the non-linear regression equation.
However, the analysis found that the variability of extreme climate in the future is more likely to occur every 5 years, and is likely to affect the variability and severity of the potential forest fires.
In addition, the potential for future forest fires is much faster than ever before.
As a result of the humidity in January and February tend to decrease while other months tend to increase humidity.
Factors Affecting Decisions to Register New Industrial Businesses
Economic growth is the ultimate goal of all the government in the world.
An important driver of economic growth is the investments in new industrial businesses.
Therefore, this study analyses the factors affecting the decision to register new industrial business the Vector Autoregression model (VAR).
Results of this study lead to policy recommendations for the Thai.
A Study of Forward and Inverse Kinematics for 6−Link Robot Arm (Staubli RX 90)
In order to command a robot to move to a desired position, the position and orientation of the end effector are required to calculate an appropriate rotating angle for each link.
On the other hand, a sequence of rotating angles for each link can be fed directly into the robot to move to the desired location.
This research focuses on a calculation and validation of forward and inverse kinematics of a Staubli RX 90 robot arm performing a writing task.
A path trajectory for writing an English alphabet is first generated and fed as an input command to the robot.
While the robot is moving, rotating angles from each link are collected to validate an accuracy of the kinematics analysis.
Comparisons between experimental results and calculations of forward and inverse kinematics in simulation have shown that the analysis of forward and inverse kinematics of Staubli RX 90 is correctly verified with some acceptable angle errors in link number 5.
Effect of Load Transfer Platform Stiffness on Differential Settlement of Deep Cement Mixing Pile Supported Embankment
This study aimed at investigating the settlement behavior of Deep Cement Mixing (DCM) improved ground under embankment loading with the different types of Load Transfer Platform (LTP).
The settlement behavior was studied by field embankment construction with instrumentation.
The load transfer mechanism was investigated by numerical analysis.
From the obtained results, it was found that the load transfer mechanism (arching effect) could be improved by increasing the LTP stiffness with cement admixture.
Larger portion of embankment load was transferred to the DCMs.
The settlement of the surrounding soil consequently decreased.
Therefore, increase of LTP stiffness could reduce the differential settlement between DCM and the surrounding soil.
Effect of Roasting Conditions on Beany Odor Retention and Chemical Properties of Sacha Inchi Flour
Beany odor is a unique flavor of bean products, which is not desired by consumers.
The objective of this research was to investigate the effect of roasting conditions on the retention of beany odor and chemical properties of Sacha Inchi flour.
The roasting temperature varied as 70, 90 and 120°C combined with roasting time for 15 and 30 minute were carried out.
The result showed that the conditions used could reduce the beany odor.
Both roasting temperature and time had an effect on lipoxygenase activity and beany odor intensity (p < 0.05) as well as roasting temperature influenced moisture content (p < 0.05).
Roasting Sacha inchi flour by roasting at 120°C for 15 minute was found to be an optimum condition.
The comparison result of chemical qualities of Sacha inchi flour with and without roasting was significantly difference (p < 0.05).
Roasted Sacha inchi flour through 120°C for 15 minute contained moisture, protein, fat, crude fiber, ash, total dietary fiber and total phenolic compounds lower than Sacha inchi flour without roasting treatment (p < 0.05).
Drying Experiment of Rubber Sheet Using Solar Dryer with Solar Collector Installed on Top Wall of the Dryer
This research aims to study the efficiency of rubber sheet drying using a solar dryer with a top-tier solar collector.
Drying conditions were separated into 3 phases.
In the first phase (first day), the air velocity in the drying room was controlled at 0.2 m/s with 550 cm2 open ventilation area.
In the second phase, (2nd–5th day), the subjects was exposed to air velocity of 0.2 m/s with 275 cm2 open-area ventilation.
In the final phase (6th–8th day), the air velocity was controlled at 0.1 m/s with the ventilation opening area of 110 cm2.
It can be seen that the ventilation opening area and the air velocity had an effect on the drying temperature control within the solar dryer.
In the first phase, the average drying temperature was 40°C with average relative humidity of 38%.
It increased to 48°C while the average relative humidity decreased to 25% in the second phase.
At the final phase, the average drying temperature and the average relative humidity were 54°C and 18% respectively; at the average ambient temperature of 31°C, at the average relative humidity of 46% and the average solar radiation of 708 W/m2.
The mathematical models of moisture ratio for thin-layer drying (Newton, Page and Henderson and Pabis) were applied for the verification of results.
It was found that Page model is more consistent than Newton and Henderson and Pabis model with R2 of 0.9825–0.9841, Adjusted R2 of 0.9822–0.9837, SSE of 0.04347–0.04918 and RMSE of 0.03074–0.0327 for rubber sheet dried with the solar dryer.
In addition, for shade drying, the statistical parameters of Page model are R2 of 0.9672-0.9826, Adjusted R2 of 0.9665-0.9823, SSE of 0.03055–0.06592 and RMSE of 0.02577–0.03786.
Asymptotic Confidence Ellipses for Length-biased Inverse Gaussian Distribution
The length-biased inverse Gaussian distribution has been useful in statistics.
This distribution has been used in extensive applications, for example, physics, engineering, and biology.
It is suited for the rightskewed data analysis.
In this research, we are interested in studying the maximum likelihood equations and finding the Fisher information matrix to construct asymptotic confidence ellipse for the length-biased inverse Gaussian distribution by comparing a coverage probability with a confidence coefficient of 0.98 of confidence ellipses for cases of sample sizes n = 10, 20, 30, 50, 60, 100, 500, and 1,000 parameter λ = 1, 3, 5, 10, 15, 20 and parameter μ = 1.
Monte Carlo simulations are considered with 10,000 iterations by using program R (3.4.3).
Factors Influencing the Job Performance of State Enterprise Employees in Telecommunications Industry
The objectives of this research are 1) to identify the causal factors influencing the job performance of employees in telecommunications industry; 2) to compare the job performances of employees in telecommunications industry; 3) to study the attributes of employees in telecommunications industry with achievement motivation and to identify ways to develop achievement motivation among employees in telecommunications industry; and 4) to develop and investigate the effects of programs in developing the achievement motivation and job performance of employees in telecommunications industry.
This research divided into 3 phases consisiting of phase 1 which was survey research conducted for objective 1 and 2, phase 2 which was qualitative research with focus group discussion and interview conducted for objective 3 and phase 3, which was experimental research conducted for objective 4.
The subjects for all phases were state enterprise employees in telecommunications industry in Thailand.
The subjects of phase 1, 2 and 3 were 520, 12 and 40 employees respectively.
The results of the findings were as follows: 1) after modifying the model, the statistics regarding the fit of the models were χ2/df = 1.296 (χ2 = 86.82, df = 67), p-value = .052, GFI = 0.980, AGFI = 0.958, NFI = 0.991, CFI = 0.998, CN = 577.407, SRMR = 0.032, and RMSEA = 0.024, all of which exceeded the required criteria.
It can be concluded that; 1) the model fit with the empirical data; 2) the employees who differed in marital status and age showed differences in job performance at .01 and .05 levels of significance respectively; 3) the attributes of employees with achievement motivation were responsible, ambitious, to be competitive, to have job knowledge and plans and the achievement goals of the employees would develop their achievement motivation in terms of having a mentor or role model and arranging onsite and offsite activities; and 4) the results analyzed by the Mann–Whitney U Test revealed that after the quasi-experiment, the achievement motivation of employees, in terms of different training methods, resulted in a job performance with a .01 level of significance (Mann-Whitney U = 98.500; p-value = .006).
The employees trained by role models showed a higher level of job performance (mean rank = 25.58) than those who were trained using group activities.
(mean rank = 15.43).
The results analyzed by the Wilcoxon Signed Ranks Test showed differences in the job performance of employees at a .01 level of statistical significance (Z = –5.284; p-value = .000).
The job performance level of the employees after the quasi-experiment (mean rank = 56.86) were higher than before (mean rank = 24.14).
Chloride Penetration and Steel Corrosion of Concrete Containing Palm Oil Fuel Ash under 5-year Exposure in Marine Environment
This research investigates the effects of palm oil fuel ash on compressive strength, chloride diffusion coefficient (Dc), and steel corrosion of concrete after being exposed to the marine environment for 5 years.
Water-to-binder ratios (W/C) were carried at 0.40, 0.45 and 0.50.
Palm oil fuel ash (the particles retained on a sieve #325 were less than 1.5%) to partially replace Portland cement type I at the percentages of 0, 15, 25, 35 and 50 by weight of binder.
The 200-mm concrete cube specimens were cast and steel bars with 12-mm diameter and 50 mm in length were embedded with the covering depth of 10, 20 and 50 mm.
Then the cylindrical specimens of 100-mm in diameter and 200-mm in height were cast for testing compressive strength then cured in fresh water for 28 days.
Subsequently, the specimens were tested to determine the compressive strength, the total chloride contents, and the surface loss of steel corrosion after being exposed to tidal zone for 5 years.
The results indicated that chloride diffusion coefficient (Dc) and steel corrosion clearly decreased with replacing palm oil fuel ash is less than 25% by weight of binder including the increased of compressive strength.
However, with a high volume of palm oil fuel ash replacement (up to 50% by weight of binder) did not well prevent the chloride resistance and steel corrosion.
Moreover, at high water-to-binder ratio effected to increase the chloride diffusion coefficient (Dc) clearly shown in normal concrete than palm oil fuel ash concrete.
Optimal Manufacturing Parameters of Rubberwood Flour/High Density Polyethylene Composites Using Box-Behnken Design.
Experimental design is the revealing of statistical relationship between parameters of experiment and responses, which leads to finding the optimal parameters of experiment. Box–Behnken experimental design and response surface methodology were applied to investigate the effects of temperature, pressing time and density on properties of rubberwood flour/high density polyethylene composites as well as to optimize manufacturing parameters of the composites.
From the experiment, it was found that temperature, pressing time and density significantly affected modulus of rupture, modulus of elastic, tensile strength, tensile modulus and water absorption.
With increasing the temperature, pressing time and density resulted in increasing of flexural and tensile properties but decreasing of water absorption, whereas when the temperature is over 195oC, modulus of rupture, tensile strength and tensile modulus slowly reduced.
And, when the pressing time is over 11 min, modulus of elastic and tensile modulus also decreased clearly.
Furthermore, regression models fitted of the modulus of rupture, modulus of elastic, tensile strength, tensile modulus and water absorption were used to optimize the manufacturing parameters of the composites.
The optimal parameters found were the temperature 197oC, pressing time 13 min and density 1.0 g/cm3.
Likewise, the composites manufactured by these parameters having the different property from the model prediction is not over 3.78%.
A Methodology to Determine the Number of Rolling Stock for Transportation Services and Preventive Maintenance
Since rolling stock which is the key equipment in a railway business is very expensive, it must be used the most efficiently.
The objective of this paper is to determine the minimum number of the rolling stock that is sufficient for services in a given timetable and the preventive maintenance.
A mathematical model was used to determine the minimum number of the rolling stock for a given timetable.
As the results, at least 240 trains are needed for the future railway projects of Bangkok Metropolitan Region with the total service distance of 509 kilometers.
It was found that the minimum number of the rolling stock depends on the service distance and headway of services in the peak hour period.
Moreover, there may be some trains those are available from services during off-peak hour.
A heuristic approach was used to schedule services and preventive maintenance tasks and determine the minimum number of the rolling stock for transportation services and preventive maintenance.
Numerical Study of a Combined Fluid Flow and Pollutant Concentration Dispersion in a Confluent River and Canal
The problems of air pollution and of water pollution are serious and harmful to human beings and other living organisms as contaminated water and pollution can affect human life, aquatic organisms and fisheries.
Besides polluted water has long been recognized as an indirect cause of foul odors.
This study investigates concentrations and dispersion of toxic pollutants released into a river and a canal.
A model is simulated from the real geography of Thailand.
Our study involves analyzing and calculating the continuity equation, momentum equations and species concentration dispersion equation based on the finite element method (FEM).
This research focuses on the effects of inlet velocities on the concentration dispersions.
The Reynold number of inlet velocities in the canal are 8.3 × 104, 1.2 × 105 and 1.7 × 105, and the Reynold number of inlet velocities in the river are 2.15 × 105, 4.3 × 105 and 8.6 × 105.
Generally, the velocity of the canal increases when the inlet velocities of the river increases.
Also, river velocity generally increases when the inlet velocities in the canal increase.
Therefore, high flow velocity has a major impact on enhanced speed, elevated pollutant concentrations.
Meanwhile concentrations of toxic substances can be reduced rapidly.
In certain cases, the flow velocities in canals and rivers are very low, resulting in higher average concentrations.
Moreover, flow velocities can cause collisions at the confluence, resulting in high concentrations of toxic substances and increased average pollutant concentrations.
The research findings should be further developed and applied to other types of models or similar issues for effective pollution control and management.
The Vehicle Routing Problem with Time Windows (VRPTW) is a kind of important variant of VRP with adding time windows constraints to the model.
The VRPTW is classified as an NP-hard problem.
Hence, the use of exact optimization techniques may be hard to solve these problems in acceptable CPU times, when the problem involves real-world data sets that are very large.
To solve this problem, this paper suggests a hybrid genetic algorithm (hybrid GA) combined with Push Forward Insertion Heuristic (PFIH) to make an initial solution instead of traditional GA and three local searches to neighborhood search and improving method.
The proposed algorithm was tested on fourteen instances from an online data set in the Solomon`s 56 benchmark problems-selected randomly.
The results indicate the good quality of the proposed algorithm.
This research studied the effect of fly ash on chloride diffusion coefficient and compressive strength of both recycled and natural aggregate concretes exposed to marine environment for 5 years.
Mae-Moh fly ash was used to replace Portland cement at the percentages of 0, 15, 25, 35, and 50 by the weight of binder with various water to binder (W/B) ratios of 0.40 and 0.45 in recycled aggregate mixtures and a W/B ratio of 0.45 in natural aggregate mixtures.
Concrete cube specimens of 200×200×200 mm3 were cast and cured in fresh water for 28 days and then were placed in a tidal zone of marine environment.
The compressive strengths of the concrete exposed to marine environment for 5 years as well as the total chloride diffusion coefficients of the specimens were determined.
The Results revealed that the compressive strengths of recycled aggregate concretes decreased after being exposed in marine environment for 5 years, whereas those of natural aggregate concretes and fly ash increased after 28 days of curing.
Evidently, higher in fly ash contents would lower chloride diffusion coefficients of both recycled and natural aggregate concretes.
Furthermore, use of fly ash as low as 15% replacement by weight in recycled aggregated concretes could provide lower chloride diffusion coefficient compared to Portland cement containing natural aggregate concrete with W/B of 0.45.
Development of MATLAB GUI for Induction Motor Fault Diagnosis
This paper presents a software development for stator and rotor fault diagnoses in induction motors based on the MATLAB GUI.
The concept of the detection is to detect the fault spectra caused by the failures of the stator and rotor.
The important analytical technique is the Motor Current Signature Analysis (MCSA).
Two intelligent methods including an Artificial Neural Network (ANN) and a Support Vector Machine (SVM) are selected to carry out fault classification and diagnosis.
The software starts to analyze when users enter the important information i.e.
the motor stator current in the time domain.
Subsequently, the software will analyze and show the results in the window of the MATLAB GUI, which is easy to read the results and to plan the maintenance.
In addition, the fault classification performances are satisfactory with more than 85% accuracy.
Heat Transfer Enhancement in Turbulent Tube Flow Through Delta-winglet Tapes
This article presents the influence of Delta-Winglet Tapes (DWT) placed in a uniform heat-fluxed tube on thermal and flow resistance characteristics.
In the current experiment, the DWTs with inclination angle (β) of 45º are inserted into the tube with three winglet blockage ratios (b/D = 0.1, 0.15 and 0.2) and three relative winglet-pitches (P/D = 1, 2 and 3).
Air as the test fluid flows through the tube for Reynolds number of about 4,200–25,800.
The experimental results reveal that the DWT can considerably enhance the heat transfer rate up to 4.06 times above the smooth tube whereas the friction factor is up to 31.63 times.
The increase in b/D leads to higher heat transfer and friction loss while the increment in P/D provides the reversing trend.
The thermal enhancement factor of the DWT is in the range of 1.16–1.51 where its maximum regarded as the optimum point is at b/D = 0.15 and P/D = 1.
Nusselt number (Nu) and friction factor (f ) correlations for the DWT are also determined.
Developing a Model of Synthesis Logic Circuits Based on Gene with Genetic Algorithm
This article mentions about applying the engineering method for studying and developing more complex gene expression by defining the terms of protein expression.
Using the idea of transcription process of lac operon which is similar to the electronic circuit due to the process that we can assume as the state ON and OFF by the inputs of one or two inducers to the circuit.
By using the genetic algorithm for searching the most optimal parameter to calculate the amount of protein product of the transcription process in various concentration of inducers.
The resulting optimal design of these biological logic gates can be extended to synthesis advanced sequential logic circuits.
Economic Analysis of Community Level Small Rice Mill
The objective of present project is focused on analyzing economic of the developed rice mill.
The components of developed rice mill mainly consisted of cleaning system, husking system polishing system and sorting system.
The machine is able to mill paddy to brown rice, semi-milled rice, and white rice depending on the needs of consumers freely.
From result of testing the machine by milling Khao Dawk Mali 105 paddy which has its moisture content not more than 14%, it was found that a capacity of a developed machine is equal to 100 kg of paddy per hour, a rice milling performance of the machine is about 66%, and rice milling effectiveness of the machine is 42%.
For economic analysis of rice mill developed, consideration of fixed cost and variable cost in using the machine was, in case of selling all products from rice milling process to customers completely, reported that Break-even Point of the machine in milling brown rice and white rice were 1,103.76 and 6,259.08 kilogram of paddy/year, respectively, and Payback Period of the machine in selling brown rice and white rice to buyers were equal to 262.56 and 1,537 hours, respectively.
Utilization of Rice Husk Ash-based Geopolymer in Hollow Load-bearing Concrete Masonry Block
This research aims to study the effects of aggregate content, sodium hydroxide (NaOH) concentration and curing temperature on compressive strength and water absorption of load-bearing geopolymer concrete block.
Original coarse rice husk ash blended with fly ash at the percentage by weight of 50 : 50 was used as a binder.
Sodium silicate (Na2SiO3) and sodium hydroxide (NaOH) solutions were also mixed with the binder to produce geopolymer concrete block.
NaOH solution concentrations were varied at 12, 14, 16, and 18 molars.
Dust limestone was also used as an aggregate in the mixture at various weight ratios between the binder (rice husk ash blended with fly ash) to aggregate of 1 : 4, 1 : 6 and 1 : 8.
The geopolymer concrete blocks were produced by using the Cinva-Ram machine.
The specimens were then arranged into two groups at the temperatures of 25°C (room temperature) and 65°C for the first 24-hour curing and then all the specimens were cured in room temperature until the testing ages.
The geopolymer concrete block specimens were tested for compressive strength at 7, 14, and 28 days and its water absorption was tested at 28 days.
The results showed that higher NaOH solution concentration led to higher compressive strength and lower water absorption of geopolymer concrete block.
These effects were evidently found in geopolymer concrete blocks with low aggregate content than in those with high aggregate content.
Increase of aggregate content in the mixture also decrease compressive strength of geopolymer concrete block.
In addition, geopolymer concrete blocks, which were cured at 65°C for 24 hours apparently yielded higher compressive strength than those cured at 25°C (room temperature).
Besides, high curing temperature has a greatter effect to increase compressive strength of geopolymer concrete block with lower NaOH concentration than that with higher NaOH concentration.
Price Forecasting of Ribbed Smoked Rubber Sheet No. 3 with a Markov Chain Model
This research proposes a Markov Chain model for forecasting the price of ribbed rubber sheet grade 3 (RSS3) in Thailand.
The model was parameterized with daily prices from January 2014 to March 2016, with the sample size of 536 sets.
This study also considers the effect of sample sizes (536 and 196) and the effect of the number of price interval was at 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, and 30.
The transition matrix was parameterized for each case, and the daily prices were simulated for 1,000 values.
The case of 536 samples and 15 intervals and the case of 196 samples at 5 intervals have the mean of absolute percentage error close to 4%.
Efficiency Enhancing of logistic Management for the Sugar Industry Grop:Case Study of Wangkanai Sugar Factory Group
This study investigated the influencing factors toward the logistics management and development of the efficiency process of logistical management of Wangkanai Sugar Factory Group.
The research population was Wangkanai Sugar Factory Group which included Wangkanai Sugar Factory (Wangkanai Sugar Co., Ltd.) in Mahasarakham Province, U−thong Sugar Factory (Chaimongkol Refined Sugar Co., Ltd.) in Suphanburi Province, T.N. Sugar Factory (T.N. Sugar Industry Co., Ltd.) in Lopburi Province, and Ratchasima Sugar Factory (Angvian Industry Co., Ltd.) in Nakhonratchasima Province.
The research was descriptive with quota sampling conducted with 285 staff who were involved in the logistic process.
One hundred and four questionnaireswere returned (36.49%) and were analysed using factor analysis and the Structural Equation Model (SEM).
The result of this study found that the logistic management for the sugar industry of Wangkanai Group had four major factors including, 1) the supply chain operation and activities by SCOR, 2) an enhancing strategy of logistics competitiveness, 3) the supply chain process, 4) the optimization process of management.
The SEM result of efficiency enhancing process of the logistics showed that logistic strongly related to the supply chain operation and activities by the SCOR with a level of statistical significance at .05 and the structural equation described a 95 percent relationship.
Determination of Filament Winding Path on a Composite Elbow Pipe for the Automatic Winding Machine
Composite pipes have an important role in construction industry in terms of strength, corrosion resistance, lightweight and non-rust.
To manufacture composite pipes, glass fiber is dipped into resin solution and wound around a mandrel pipe.
This research determines the elbow pipe filament winding path on an elbow mandrel by using helix curve equations.
A CAD/CAM software determines the number of winding rounds to obtain the desired filament angle, and simulates the filament winding pattern.
The experiments show that the filament winding machine is able to automatically wind the filament similar to the design pattern.
The validation is done by comparing the machine winding path with the simulation winding path on an elbow pipe.
The result shows that the machine works according to the design.
This study provides the knowledge on determination of the filament winding path on elbow pipes for the automatic winding machine.
The results can be applied to various sizes of elbow pipes.
The Confidence Interval of the Coefficient of Variation for a Zero - Inflated Poisson Distribution
This research was to present the confidence interval of the coefficient of variation for Zero-Inflated Poisson (ZIP) distribution by using the principle parameter estimation of ZIP distribution with Maximum Likelihood Estimator and to create the confidence interval of the coefficient of variation for ZIP distribution.
The efficiency of the interval was considered by the coverage probability and the average width of the confidence interval.
The R program was employed to simulate the repetition of numerous data set, which coefficient of variation (κ) was at 0.39 to 3.32.
The parameters of ZIP distribution were average number of events in a specified region (λ), equal to 5(5)25.
The proportions of observed zero (ω) were 0.1(0.1)0.9 and the sample sizes (n) were 30, 40, 50, 100 and 200 with the confidence levels of 0.90, 0.95 and 0.99.
The results showed that at the confidence levels of 0.90 and 0.95, the proposed confidence interval gave the coverage probability as criteria defined in all cases of λ when n = 50, 100, 200 and ω = 0.2–0.9.
For the confidence level of 0.99, found that the coverage probability meets the defined criteria in all cases of ω when n = 200 and λ = 20, 25 In addition, the results showed that the average width of the proposed confidence interval decreases when ω increase.
However, as n increases, the average width of the confidence interval decreases for all levels of λ and ω.
Groundwater Flow Simulation to Analyze Channel Head Bifurcation
River basin networks are generated by erosion processes at channel heads.
This sometimes results in two-way splitting of channel heads (bifurcation) that is an important process causing an increase in stream orders.
It means a more complex network.
Bifurcation depends on the geological and hydrologic characteristics of each river basin.
We studied channel head erosion due to groundwater by a numerical method to simulate the groundwater flow fields.
We assumed the shape of channel head to be isosceles triangles.
This study analyzed the probability of channel head bifurcation from the assumption as follows.
If the maximum seepage along a channel head is not at the symmetrical axis of the channel but appears at two locations along the left and right banks.
The channel head shapes related to the contributing area shapes and water sources (upstream or rain feeding) influenced the groundwater flow filed and channel head bifurcation.
It is found that the most prominent factor is the angle of the isosceles triangle head that the angle is larger than 150°.
In addition, the more the influence of rain fall on groundwater flow field, the higher possibility of channel head bifurcation occurs.
Warehouse management costs are the major cost in the logistics system.
The main activity in the warehouse is storage, which comes with different storage systems ranging from block stacking to automated storage.
This study are concentrated on block stacking system, because of its widespread use, high flexibility, low cost and suitability for high inventory turnover.
However, it causes potential loss of storage space within the warehouse that affects the facility's space utilization.
Designing a block stacking system by determining the optimal lane depth is one way to solve the problem.
However, studies on determining the optimal lane depth under the finite production rate constraint has not been carried out so far.
This research applied two mathematical models to compute the optimal lane depth, the infinite model (P = ∞) does not consider the production rate but the finite model (P ≠ ∞) does in order to compare the average waste of storage space.
It has been found that the finite model gives less average waste of storage space than its counterpart.
Cause of Delay in the Construction Project by Relative Importance Index Method
The research aims to provide information for successful construction project management.
There are a large number of variables that can affect project delays and disruptions.
Previously the investigation focused on project overview while excluding project stakeholders.
In other words, ongoing construction were not taken into consideration.
In this study, the analysis was done in terms of overall and separate considerations on causality; thus stakeholders attitude towards the project can be separated.
The causal group encompasses the owner group, designer and supervisor group, along with the contractor group.
The data were gathered from representative engineers associated with the construction projects in Bangkok and its vicinity.
Factors causing delays and disruptions were analyzed using Relative Importance Index (RII).
As results, the most significant factors contributing to construction delays are labor shortage, construction mistakes and defective work for the contractor group, coupled with slow decision making for the designer and supervisor group.
As for the owner or the contractor, the delay emerges from confused statement of work and late delivery of the construction site.
In addition, lack of collaboration and swing relationships among stakeholders and lack of continuity of the work in its construction phases are major factors affecting delays on construction projects.
The Impact of Inrush Current from Medium Voltage Capacitor Banks Switching: A Case Study of MEA
Increasing the stability of the power system is one of the methods used in the Metropolitan Electricity Authority (MEA).
This method compensates the reactive power from switching the capacitor banks into the electrical system by using a circuit breaker to connect the capacitor bank.
From the switching a high level of inrush current will be generated which can cause serious damage to the capacitor bank.
Therefore, this study investigates the impact of inrush current using circuit breaker to connect the capacitor bank by modeling electrical system with ATP-EMTP transient analysis program.
The result of the study reveals that the current and voltage while switching the capacitor bank can be determined the effect of switching on two cases.
Case 1: The simulation of switching power supply capacitor bank for one set showed that the peak current was 1.610 kA in phase A at 90 and 270 degrees and the maximum voltage in phase A was 16.751 kV at 90 and 270 degrees.
Case 2: the simulation of switching power supply capacitor bank for set together with another capacitor bank, showed the peak current was 1.829 kA at 90 and 270 degrees in phase A and the maximum voltage in phase A was 17.832 kV at 90 and 270 degrees.
A Comparative Forecasting Model of Monthly Rainfall in the Northeast of Thailand
The purpose of this study was to compare 5 forecasting models, i.e. Ratio-to-Trend Method, Holt-Winters Exponential Smoothing Method, Regression Dummy Variables Method, Theta Method, and Combined Forecasting Method.
These methods were used to forecast the maximum monthly rainfall (MMR) and accumulated monthly rainfall (AMR) in 3 northeastern provinces of Thailand, including Sakon Nakhon, Nakhon Phanom and Mukdahan.
Related data collected by Meteorological Department of Thailand during 1984 through 2017 were investigated for the accuracy of the forecasting models.
The Mean Square Error (MSE) was used to determine the model accuracy while the smallest MSE values indicate the optimal forecasting model.
The R programming was used for data analysis.
Rainfall time series and seasonal variability were detected.
As results, the optimal model was found to be Combined Forecasting Method; followed by other 4 tops models: the Ratio-to-Trend Method, Theta Method, Holt-Winters Exponential Smoothing Method and Regression Dummy Method respectively.
Dyeing of Nano Carbon and Titanium Dioxide Coated Monk Robes Using Natural Dye Powder
This research intends to developed nano carbon and titanium dioxide coated monk robes dyeing with natural dye powder.
The physical property of cotton, silk and muslin fabrics coated with nano carbon and titanium dioxide were investigated.
The antifungal, antibacterial and UV protection properties were also characterized.
Cotton, silk and muslin fabrics coated with nano carbon and titanium dioxide could inhibited both gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria.
Light fastness properties of cotton, silk and muslin fabrics without coated and coated with nano carbon and titanium dioxide dyed with Allium ascalonicum Linn.
and Gareinia dulcis Kurz average level were 3–4 (moderate to good) and washing fastness properties average were 4–5 (good to very good).
The ability to prevent UVA and UVB rays of cotton, silk and muslin fabrics coated with nano carbon and titanium dioxide with ratios 0.01 : 0.49 (g) reflected the UPF value of UV protection was more than 50, with the maximum UV protection (over 98 percent) and had percent transmittance of an ultraviolet B rays of ≤2.5.
Development of Kineet Guided Senior Citizen Following Robot by Fuzzy Control
Currently, the number of senior citizens who live alone in Thailand has increased continuously.
Accordingly, this research aims to develop Kinect guided senior citizen following robot by fuzzy control for making decision on robot’s movement.
Firstly, the researcher conducted a test to find the best interval for detecting senior citizen in order to determine the range of robot’s movement control through fuzzy control.
A participant of this test was requested to stand in Calibration Pose at the defined position and the result was analyzed by using Analysis of Variance at 95% confidence interval.
The results showed that the quantity of skeleton was properly detected at −50 centimeters to 50 centimeters on X axis and 200 centimeters to 250 centimeters on Z axis.
Subsequently, the researcher designed the fuzzy system by setting the robot to detect the center between shoulders then 2 input variables and 2 output variables (including X error, Z error, motor speed of left wheel, and motor speed of right wheel, respectively) were determined.
Moreover, Center of Gravity Method was also utilized for averaging results obtained from interpretation.
In conclusion, this Kinect guided senior citizen following robot by fuzzy control was able to follow senior citizens greatly.
The Root Mean Square Error (RMSE) on X axis is 11.355 and Z axis is 8.548 respectively
Spatial Distribution of Drought Return Periods for the Mun Basin Using a Bivariate Copula Method
Droughts are major natural disasters with significant impacts on environment, economic and society.
In the assessment of the drought, the important parameters are drought severity and drought duration which are rarely taken into consideration together.
This study aimed to assess the bivariate droughts in the Mun basin, to identify drought severity and duration, and to analyze the bivariate probability distribution for these two drought characteristics from Clayton copula method.
The results of univariate and bivariate analyses of return period showed that the bivariate return period for each characteristic was smaller than that of the relying univariate return period.
The return period of spatial distribution of extreme drought in the Mun basin was between 1.8–2.9 years.
This showed that there was high probability of extreme drought occurring in the Mum basin with high frequency and fairly uniform distribution.
Risk Assessment of Thermal Hazard and Reactivity of Hydrogen Peroxide by Differential Scanning Calorimetry
Hydrogen peroxide is a strong oxidizing agent containing a peroxide functional group that easily decomposes.
In this research, a commercial grade of 50% w/w hydrogen peroxide was evaluated for thermal hazard and reactivity by differential scanning calorimetry.
It was found that the calculated activation energy using the Flynn/Wall/Ozawa equation was 72.0 kJ/mol.
The risk assessment of thermal hazard evaluated in terms of the averages of adiabatic decomposition temperature rise and time-tomaximum rate, were 363.4 K and 36.0 seconds, respectively.
The risk assessment of reactivity, evaluated from instantaneous power density was 40.7 kW/cm3.
The instability and the harzadous chemical reaction rating have shown at the level of 4.
It can be concluded that the 50% w/w of hydrogen peroxide by itself with possibility of detonation, explosive decomposition or chemical reaction explosion at normal temperature and pressure.
Therefore, the storage, transportation and usage must be done with extra caution and by qualified person who has been trained or by the chemist who is knowledgeable in chemical.
Shrimp Shell Deproteinization by Using Papain and Antifungal of Chitosan Against Fusarium oxysporum
Chitosan is a deacetylation chitin derivative widely used in various fields.
It is also used as a fungicide instead of a chemical substance.
This study started with chitin preparation using a biological method in deproteinization process.
This method is less harmful than other chemical one, and also obtains Hydrolysate, a protein with no chemical contamination, which can be used as a protein source for animals.
The aim of this study was to define the optimal conditions for deproteinization of shrimp shells using commercial papain.
The chitin product was used for chitosan preparation and then, the chitosan was tested for antifungal activity against F. oxysporum, which is the cause of Fusarium wilt disease in many plants.
The results showed that the optimal conditions for deproteinization were pH 8.0, a temperature of 40°c and the ratio of shrimp shell to papain was 1 gram : 1 unit.
Within 60 minutes, the percentage of deproteinization and demineralization was achieved 63.54 ± 0.0171% and 45.98%, respectively.
The chitosan from shrimp shells exhibited F. oxysporum inhibitory activity with IC50 value of 0.762% w/v. This research obtained the optimal conditions for deproteinization of shrimp shell using papain and the chitosan which is a good inhibitor for F. oxysporum.
Synthesis of Waveguide Band-Pass Filter using K-inverter Technique for Microwave Engineering Education
This research presents a synthesis of waveguide band-pass filter using the K-inverter technique for microwave engineering education.
The simulator based on the K-inverter technique was developed using the GUI function of MATLAB®.
The band pass filter was synthesized using the Chebyshev approximation theory and the K-inverter technique to design the structure of inductive iris filter in waveguide.
The designed BPF filter was implemented in operating frequency range of 8.35–8.65 GHz and tested in comparison to a commercial simulator.
The simulated results of designed waveguide BPF filter using developed simulator are consistent to commercial simulator and filter theory.
The designed waveguide band-pass filter using the K-inverter technique can be implemented and used effectively as a prototype filter in engineering education.
Two-dimension Flim Cutting by Quality Grade
The plastic film manufacturing industry: One of the manufacturing processes, including cutting the film to the size that according to customer requirements, due to a variety of customers, including width, length, grade and due date, etc.
This research aims to 1) form a mathematical model that use the genetic algorithm that create the optimizing patterns.
2) Developing the cutting film programs which following the patterns speed performance that had developed by the generating pattern and the application speed in the context of the cutting blade changed.
To find the guidelines of the research on Two−dimension Film Cutting by Quality Grade, the first step is to studies the genetic algorithm theory related research and education in the management of the cutting two−dimensional material as much as possible.
The second step is to analyze the research in the context of the proposed research.
The third step is to educate deeply in the research context.
Step four is synthesizing the mathematical model.
The fifth is testing the feasibility of the mathematical model that synthesis.
Step six Programming and testing with the actually work.
Step seven testing with the human computation.
And the eighth compare and analyze the results from the management’s technology with the old ways that is used the human computing.
The result on this research that is developed by the synthesized mathematical model decreased the calculating time when compare with the man is 51 times (5185%) and reduce blades changed time in the manufacturing 13 percent less on average.
Stratum Boundaries Construction Using K-means Clustering Algorithm in Stratified Random Sampling
This research presented the stratum boundaries construction techniques by K-means clustering algorithm for estimating the population mean in stratified random sampling.
Samples are selected by simple random sampling method without replacement and allocated in accordance with the population size in each stratum.
In this study, the population was separated into 4, 5 and 6 strata with the maximum correlation coefficients between the auxiliary variable and the variable of interest equal to 0.50, 0.70 and 0.90 and sample sizes of 50, 100, 150, 200 and 300.
The efficiency of the estimator by the proposed strata construction relative to the estimate by Dalenius & Hodges strata construction method is used in the estimator evaluation.
The estimator when constructing the strata by K-means clustering algorithm was more efficient in all simulation cases.
Management of a Multi-robots System for Industrial Material Handling
Recently, material handling of manufacturing factories tends to widely adopt AGV robots.
However, AGV robots mostly handle one-by-one material from a start station to a final station, repeatedly.
This research introduces a multi-robots material handling system that can handle multiple robots and stations at the same time.
The control program is based on ROS (Robot Operating System).
The objective of this research is to improve the effectiveness of material handling system by adding more flexibility and reducing the robot work time.
The management system uses the market-based approach combined with Dijkstra’s algorithm for material handling in a manufacture factory.
The simulation results found that the system is able to control various types of AGV robots.
This means that the system has ability to order and execute the best robot among all working robots in the system for an incoming task at the current situation.
This reduces the total working time by a half comparing with FIFO method.
In the case study of the 65-m2 working area, the optimum number of the robots is 3 to execute 100 tasks.
The research results shown that the system can arrange materials handling by choosing the suitable robots for overall fastest cycle time.
This system increases flexibility in handling materials in various working spaces.
The knowledge of this research can be applied on many factories, which use multiple robots for various tasks to hand materials from start stations to final stations.
Model of Intelligent Cloud Learning System to Develop Digital Literacy and Collaborative Learning Skills
Intelligent cloud learning system is a learning tool which is used to adaptive suitable contents and tests for individual learners’ and group activities.
The purposes of this research comprise: 1) to design intelligent cloud learning system to develop digital literacy and collaborative learning skills; and 2) to evaluate the appropriateness of the model of intelligent cloud learning system to develop digital literacy and collaborative learning skills Questionnaires were used to evaluate the appropriateness of the model on the components of intelligent cloud learning system from seven experts who have experiences in designing learning model and education technology.
From the results, it can be concluded that the overall appropriateness of the model of intelligent cloud learning system to develop digital literacy and collaborative skills reaches the mean score of 4.48 (S.D. is 0.51) with very high level of the appropriateness.
The purpose of this cross-sectional study was to integrate the fault tree analysis and analytic hierarchy process for assessing the medical waste management practices and associated risk perceptions in eight health promoting hospitals in NongKhae, Saraburi province.
A cross-sectional study was conducted during July 2017 to April 2018.
The 4 stages of treating medical waste consist of segregation; storage; transportation; and disposal of health-care waste.
The fault tree analysis and analytic hierarchy process technique were used for determining the relative weight of hazard probability of occurrence.
Very high potential risks are found on all the 4 dimensions whereas non-compliance with standard procedures occurs in 3 categories: the segregation, transportation and disposal of infectious waste.
These aspects of medical waste handling processes were analyzed and determined in high-risk levels: lack of containers for infectious waste separation; improper vehicles and means of waste conveyance; and waste incinerators’ insufficient control of temperature during the burn.
The moderate risk level was determined in these aspects: infectious waste separation, storage, and transportation, as well as absence of sufficient supervision and lack of specific storage areas for avoiding contamination and the spread of pathogenic microorganisms.
To sum up, treatment and disposal of healthcare waste may pose health risks.
The governing board and management of health promoting hospitals should establish safety measures for infectious waste treatment in order to efficiently address the risks that are likely to arise from routine operational procedures.
The Mechanical Properties and Thermal Conductivity of Concrete Block from Agricultural Wastes
The research article presents the mechanical properties and thermal conductivity of concrete blocks from agricultural wastes.
The standard mix ratio of cement: stone: sand: water was 3 : 12 : 8 : 1.3 wt%.
The percentage of sugarcane and corn leaves replacing cement was 4, 6, 8, 10 wt%.
Mechanical properties and thermal conductivity in terms of compressive strength, water absorption, density thermal conductivity and ultrasonic pulse velocity were studied.
The results showed that when replacing cement with sugarcane leaves 4% by cement weight, thermal conductivity, density and compressive strength decreased, while water absorption increased.
Replacing cement with sugarcane leaves yielded better mechanical properties and thermal conductivity than replacing with corn leaves.
Ultrasonic pulse velocity is used to test the compressive strength and density, which are two important indices to characterize mechanical properties of concrete blocks.
Concrete blocks of sugarcane and corn leaves can reduce heat entering a building by up to 53.29% and 54.93%, respectively.
Concrete blocks from agricultural wasted can be developed into thermal insulators and they are environmentally friendly materials, as well.
The research aims to assessed flood susceptibility area and catchment area in the four districts of Suphanburi province, Thailand.
The criteria using in the GIS analysis that has been provided from the Analytical Hierarchy Process (AHP).
The concerned parameter for provide a flood susceptibility map that were, i.e., rainfall, soil drainage, slope, distance from river, and land use.
While, the catchment area map used three parameters, i.e. slope, distance from river and land use.
The result shows that the moderate flood susceptibility area was the most area in a map (44.12%).
On the other hand, the high flood susceptibility area (29.15%) found that located on the Bangplama district and Songphinong district.
In the part of catchment area, these was found 849 km2 (22.19% of total area) suitable for developed to be the catchment.
The comparison results of flood susceptibility areas and suitable catchment areas these found that the four locations were suitable to developed being the catchment area, such as Jorakae Sampan subdistrict, Bangtakien subdistrict, Taling Chan subdistrict and the area junction between Cokcothow subdistrict and Cokkarm subdistrict.
A Mixed Cumulative Sum-Tukey’s Control Chart for Detecting Process Dispersion
The objective of this research is to propose a mixed Cumulative Sum-Tukey Control Chart (CUSUMTCC) for detecting process dispersion using the range, when the process is symmetric and asymmetric distributions.
The performance of CUSUM-TCC is compared with Tukey’s Control Chart (TCC), Cumulative Sum Control Chart (CUSUM) and Exponentially Weighted Moving Average -Tukey Control Charts (EWMATCC), measured by the Average Run Length (ARL).
The in control Average Run Length (ARL0) is given to 370 and 500.
In order to approximate ARL, the Monte Carlo simulation method is used and the numerical results reveal that CUSUM-TCC is superior to TCC, CUSUM and EWMA-TCC for all cases of asymmetric distributions.
However, for the case of ARL0 = 370 sample n = 1 and 5 and the process has laplace distribution, the performance of EWMA-TCC is superior to the mixed CUSUM-TCC and other control charts when the magnitudes of change in dispersion parameter δ ≤ 1.6.
In addition, for the case of ARL0 = 500 sample n = 1 and 5 the EWMA-TCC performs better than the mixed CUSUM-TCC and other control charts for all magnitudes of change.
Influence of Carrageenan Addition on Physico-chemical and Sensory Properties of Low Fat Chicken Sausages
The objective of this study was to enhance the quality characteristics of low-fat chicken sausages by the incorporation of carrageenan at different levels (0, 1, 1.5 and 2% w/w).
The physicochemical qualities, sensory evaluation and texture profile properties of low-fat chicken sausages were studied.
The results showed that increasing carrageenan to product samples improved moisture content, water holding capacity along with cooking yield but decreased cooking loss (p < 0.05).
This is probably due to the fact that they can form gel by themselves which entrapped more water and enhanced protein gel strength.
For the color analysis, the addition of carrageenan increased a* (p < 0.05) and b* values but decreased L* value of the sausages by comparison with the corresponding control counterpart.
In regard to the texture profile analysis, increasing carrageenan increased hardness and chewiness and decreased cohesiveness and gumminess; nonetheless the practice did not affect the sample springiness (p < 0.05).
Analysis of protein and ash contents of low fat chicken sausage added with carrageenan at different levels showed no significant differences as compared to the control; while fat contents significantly decreased with increasing amounts of carrageenan addition.
Sensory evaluation revealed that the low-fat chicken sausages containing 1.5% and 2% carrageenan had no significantly higher scores for flavor, texture and overall acceptability than the control counterpart (P > 0.05).
Factors of Machining with Milling Tool TiAIN Coated Solid Carbide Finishing End Mill Affecting Life Time of Cutting Edge and Surface Roughness
This study aimed to identify factors in the Soloid Carbide Finishing End Mill (TiAlN) affecting to the utilization duration of cutting by considering the test machining medium carbon steel (S45C) Factors affecting the utilization duration of cutting are spindle speed, feed rate and depth of cut.
In addition, factors that affect the cutting are also occurring from direction, overlap and coolant.
Therefore, this research is conducted by controlled experiments the cutting speed, feed rate, depth of cut and determining three factors include overlap, cut direction and coolant.
The surface roughness variable could define the standard of milling surface roughness (Ra) ≤1.6 micrometers which uses constant speed at 1500 rpm.
by setting 2 level include overlap at 2 mm and 4 mm.
Moreover, setting climb milling, conventional milling, and coolant by controlling as closed and reopened are important to the utilization duration.
The study found that the significant of cut direction, Overlap, and coolant on life time of cutting edge is .05.
The best outcome can be achieved by using two millimeters overlap, climb milling and open coolant.
The factory cost reduced when selecting an appropriate factor.
Field Strength Assessment of Recycled Base Course by Dynamic Cone Penetration (DCP) Test
During pavement rehabilitation, there is a need to assess the field strength of base course for quality inspection.
The indirect approach for controlling the strength is field density test by sand cone method and unconfined compression test on field compacted sample.
However the field and laboratory strengths are different due to the effects of gradation and compaction energy.
The Dynamic Cone penetration (DCP) has been extensively used to evaluate the field penetration resistance of base and subbase layers.
In this research, the DCP was investigated and used to assess the field strength of recycled base course from pavement in−place recycling.
The calibration of DCP and unconfined compression tests were performed on base course model under various Reclaimed Asphalt Pavement (RAP), cement and moisture contents.
A new modified Penetration index (PI*) have been proposed for DCP test of compacted soil−RAP−cement.
The correlation equation between PI* and qu have presented and discussed.
The field tests were performed for investigating the performance of pavement recycling of base course by using DCP test.
The pavement rehabilitation of Highway 24 in Nakhon Ratchsima, Thailand has assessed by DCP test.
The field strength by DCP test has reported and compared with those of field hand compaction strength and strength requirement for soil cement base.
The Increment of Biodiesel B100 Usage Potential in Thailand's Coastal Fishery Boats
In 2013, Thailand’s energy conservation promotion fund (ENCON Fund) worked on “The Pilot Project of Biodiesel B20 for Coastal Fishery Boat”, which was one of the driven forces on Thailand’s Alternative Energy Development Plan (AEDP).
The result confirmed an engineering feasibility and the analytical results of Thailand’s biodiesel usage found that biodiesel usage was higher than expected in annual AEDP year 2015.
However, biodiesel usage needs to be promoted continuously.
This research analyzed the potential of biodiesel B100 usage and the decrease of imported conventional diesel which were caused by Coastal Fishery Boats.
It is found that the coastal fishery boat and small fishery boat can increase the potential of biodiesel B100 usage by 4.45 and 18.13 liters per day, respectively, which equal 82.52 and 506.98 bahts per day.
Therefore, if all fishery boats change to biodiesel B20, the biodiesel B100 usage will be increased 313,053.54 liters per day and the biodiesel B100 imported value will be decreased 8.05 million bahts per day.
This shows positive impacts on Thailand’s economics, society and environment.
Normally, the water level control for filter tank of a large water treatment uses the PID controller with fixed gain.
Due to the increase or decrease in production process in each period, the washing filter tank, and the amount of particle suspensions of different input raw water, the flow rate of raw water into the filter tank changes nonlinearly.
As a result, the static gain of the PID controller cannot respond well.
This causes a large butterfly outlet valve to work frequently while trying to maintain the water level in the filter tanks.
Hence, the motor and gear set of butterfly valve’s lifespan are shorten.
This research presents the 2−state fuzzy logic controller.
The aim is to reduce the working of butterfly valve, and to maintain water levels in the specified range.
The experimental result reveals that the proposed 2−stage fuzzy logic controller reduces the opening and closing of the butterfly valve considerably and has a better response to the water level maintaining than the PID controller with fixed gain.
The study aims to conduct a SWOT analysis as to explore the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats of Pattaya Municipality in order to trace its trends for the progress toward the realization of the ASEAN Economic Community (AEC).
Through a SWOT analysis, research procedures were carried out through various aspects, ranging from gathering information from relevant documents and research studies;
carrying out in−depth interviews with experts possessing long experience in the tourism industry;
interviewing international visitors;
making surveys and collecting data from the entrepreneurs engaged in the Pattaya tourism-related companies;
as well as brainstorming all possible stakeholders.
As results, major strengths are that the city offers attractive investment opportunities for a variety of entertainment and different types of investments, some of which include the hospitality industry, food and beverage businesses, real estate, department stores, telecommunications infrastructure and logistics options.
These factors have affected the steady expansion of Pattaya’s economic development as well as trade and investment growth since 2013.
As the city’s tourism industry demonstrates high potential and readiness for competition among the ASEAN and global nations, there seems to be a positive outlook for employment across industries.
Therefore, the government needs to boost the efficiency of the Thai workforce so that the group can keep up with rapid technological changes and become ready for entering into competition with the inflow of overseas workers.
From the flood situation in Thailand, 2554, a large number of victims had a trouble in evacuating from affected areas to save places.
Due to the height of flood level, only special high vehicle can be used for evacuation during flood.
Based on this problem, we want to solve the problem of vehicle routing for evacuation during flood situation.
The objective is to determine the vehicle routes, for moving victims from affected areas to safe places during flood disaster, with the shortest total evacuation time.
We solved the problem by constructing a Mathematical Model, which was developed based on the Vehicle Routing Problem (VRP).
The proposed model considered two types of victims, which are regular victims and special help needed victims.
We tested the proposed model with a case study area in Ladsawai Sub district, Lumlukka District, Pathumthani Province.
The experiments were divided into 10 cases, by fixing the proportion of victims in each village wanted to evacuate at 10%, 20% and 30%, and by considering 3 flood levels at 0.5, 1.5 and 2.5 meters.
The last case, case 10, was the vehicle routing similar to the one used during flood in 2014.
The output of the model showed the shortest total evacuation times (depended on travelled distance and loading time), the number of vehicles needed, and the routes that each vehicle took to evacuate the victims.
This result can be used as a guideline for the vehicle route management planning when the next flood occurs.
In this article, we propose ideas of pattern formation in nature and in laboratories, examples of quasipattern formation, relation between Fibonacci sequence and golden number, arrangement of sunflower seeds, and efficiency of arrangement of sunflower seeds.
Under some conditions, such arrangement presents the dense packing of seeds and the least free space.
Positioning Error Reduction in Robotic Manipulator SEIKO D-TRAN RT3200 Using Repetitive Control
Nowadays, automation machines are popular in Thai manufacturing industries.
An industrial robot arm is one kind of machine that has been widely used for tracking applications, such as spot welding or path welding, “pick and place” tasks, laser cutting, gluing, and painting.
Due to the imperfect mechanical parts of the robot arm, distance errors generally occur during the operation and sometimes this causes defects in the production line.
This issue has been seriously taken into account when applying the robot arm to high-precision tasks.
This research studies how to improve the performance of the industrial robot arm, SEIKO D-TRAN RT3200, performing a repetitive task by using 3 types of repetitive control designs: 1) a simple repetitive controller; 2) an optimal repetitive controller designed in the frequency domain; 3) and an optimal and robust repetitive controller designed in the frequency domain.
The stability and performance of the controllers are demonstrated in the simulation results.
Development of Babbler’s Bill Leaf Carragenan Jellies
The aim of this research was to develop herbal jelly from Babbler’s Bill Leaf.
Several conditions affecting the jelly’s qualities were studied, such as the amount of carrageenan and sugar, and the ratio of water to Babbler’s Bill leaf.
From this research a suitable formula was composed of Babbler’s Bill leaf extract (ratio of water to fresh Babbler’s Bill leaf was 95 : 5) at 82.97%, sugar at 14.85%, carrageenan at 1.98%, and citric acid at 0.025%.
The moisture content of the final product was 85.19 and the water activity (aw) was 0.989.
The texture properties of the developed product were hardness at 70.06 g., cohesiveness at 0.51, Gumminess at 20.04 g, springiness at 0.30, and color properties were L* 26.49, a* –2.57, and b* 8.12. Finally, there was no microbial growth detected.
Potential Model Development for Chief Crew Flight Attendants of Thailand’s Aviation Business for Competitiveness
The purposes of this study were to identify potential components of chief crew flight attendants for competitiveness; to develop potential model of chief crew flight attendants for competitiveness; and to create a handbook for enhancing potential development of chief crew flight attendants for competitiveness.
The study applied mixed methods of qualitative and quantitative approaches.
The participants providing qualitative information included 6 airlines executives for in-depth interviews, 17 experts conducting focus groups, along with 8 experts responsible for a thorough handbook evaluation.
The quantitative data were obtained from 315 chief crew flight attendants working in 5 Thailand-based airlines.
The research instruments were in-depth interviews, questionnaires and records.
The qualitative data were analyzed by content analysis and content validity ratio (CVR).
For quantitative data, descriptive statistics consisting of frequency, percentage, mean, standard deviation and exploratory factor analysis were explored.
As results, the components of potential model development for chief crew flight attendants consist of 5 essential potential components with 19 sub-components as follows: 1) Knowledge Management, embracing 4 constituents: knowledge development, knowledge acquisition, knowledge transfer, and knowledge retention; 2) Operations Management, containing 3 constituents: duty planning, job performance organizing, and job evaluation; 3) Organizational Development, comprising 2 sub-components: human resources, and operational systems development; 4) Self Development, containing 4 sub-factors: cognitive skill development, self-improvement, self-control, and solving in-flight critical problems; 5) Human Relationship Potential component covering 6 sub-components: leadership, in-flight communication, work cooperation, teamwork abilities, flexible in working, and service mind.
The potential development handbook for enhancing the chief crew flight attendants potentiality consists of 3 parts: General Introduction, Potential Model Development of chief crew flight attendants, and Potential Development Guidelines. s, Competitiveness
Evaluation of Response Modification Factor for 4-story RC Shophouses
This paper presents the evaluation of the response modification factor (R) for 4-story reinforced concrete shop houses in Thailand.
The buildings, some of which were designed for earthquakes and some that were not, were used as a case study.
For the seismic design, two different types of structural systems, intermediate RC moment resisting frames and special RC moment resisting frames, were considered and designed according to Thailand’s seismic design code, namely DPT-1302.
In this study, nonlinear static analysis (pushover analysis) was employed and the analytical results were compared with the DPT-1302 standard.
The results indicated that the response modification factors for both the intermediate RC moment resisting frames and the special RC moment resisting frames from the analysis were greater than the factors prescribed by the DPT-1302 standard.
A Low-Power CMOS Current-Mode True RMS-to-DC Converter
This paper presents a low-power CMOS current-mode true RMS-to-DC converter based on the translinear principle of CMOS operating in a saturation region.
The technique used for the design of the realization scheme was the implicit computation method.
Its main conversion circuit structure consisted of a two-quadrant squaring circuit and a low-pass filter circuit.
The circuit can be used with both positive and negative input signals.
Simulation results were examined using the HSPICE program with model 0.18 μm BSIM3V3 level 49 TSMC CMOS process parameters.
It was found that the circuit features could operate well in a wide input range (500 nA–100 μA), with low supply voltage (1.8 V), low power dissipation (0.15 μW), and a high bandwidth (50 MHz); and the error of conversion accuracy was less than 1%, well in agreement with theory.
Moisture Content (MC), water activity (Aw) and solubility of the encapsulated powders significantly decreased when concentration of carrier increased from 10 to 30% (p < 0.05).
However, the powders from GA gave better solubility than those of MD.
Morphological study revealed that the powders had larger particle size and less in bulk density when concentration of carriers increased.
In addition, Total Phenolic Content (TPC) and antioxidant activity (DPPH) significantly decreased when encapsulated holy basil in MD and GA (p < 0.05).
Therefore, using 10% GA as a carrier was selected for second experiment.
Increasing of inlet temperature did not affect solubility but significantly affected MC, Aw, bulk density, particle size, lightness, TPC and DPPH (p < 0.05).
Using 140°C resulted in the highest TPC and DPPH activity compared to the other treatment during in vitro digestion.
In conclusion, the suitable condition of holy basil powder by spray drying was using 10% GA at 140°C inlet temperature.
Development of Soy Yogurt Drink Fortified with Quinoa and Psyllium Husk
Plant-based food products have been considered as an alternative to health-conscious consumers and consumers with lactose intolerance.
This research aimed to develop soy yogurt drink fortified with quinoa and psyllium husk and to study consumers’ acceptability on the developed product.
The study on suitable ratio between soybean and water to produce soy milk was conducted with different ratios by weight including 1 : 3, 1 : 4 and 1 : 5, respectively.
The yogurt starter cultures were added and were incubated at 43°C for 12 hours.
After incubation, water was added to soy yogurt with the ratio of 1 : 1 w/w to make soy yogurt drink.
The preferred ratio between soybean and water for making soy yogurt was 1 : 4.
Liquid sucrose with different concentrations (0%, 4%, 8%, 12%, and 16% v/v) was mixed into the soy yogurt drink.
The most liked formula was the one with 8% liquid sucrose.
Psyllium husk and quinoa were added to soy yogurt drink with three different ratios including 1 : 3, 1 : 5, and 1 : 7 w/w, respectively.
The ratio of 1 : 5 was the favorite formula.
Physical, chemical, microbiological and consumers’ acceptability of developed product were determined.
Soy yogurt drink fortified with quinoa and psyllium husk contained 5.88 ± 0.07% of protein and 5.60 ± 0.13% of crude fiber whereas the product without quinoa and psyllium husk had 1.41 ± 0.09% of protein and 0.59 ± 0.16% of crude fiber.
Eighty-three percent of consumers accepted the product.
Sixty-five percent of consumers decided to buy the product if it would be commercially available.
Physicochemical Properties and Sensory Quality of Gluten-free Brown Rice Pasta Enriched with Egg White Protein
Gluten free (GF) products are increasingly interested worldwide.
The objective of this research was to develop gluten-free pasta from brown rice flour enriched with egg white protein and to evaluate physicochemical quality and consumer acceptability of developed gluten-free brown rice pasta formulations.
Composite flour from Brown Rice Flour (BRF) and Pre-gelatinized Cassava Starch (PGCS) (BRF : PGCS at 100 : 0, 95 : 5 and 90 : 10), egg white powder (EWP at 5 and 10%, w/w), and xanthan gum (XG at 5 and 10%, w/w) were applied using full factorial in CRD to produce gluten-free pasta.
Developed pasta was subjected to physicochemical properties including cooking time, cooking loss, water absorption, and hardness using texture analyser.
Sensory evaluation using 9-point hedonic scale (with and without pasta sauce) (n=50) for the selected GF pasta which had low cooking loss was conducted and served using sequential monadic for 4 samples of each set with counterbalanced serving.
The results showed that at the same level of EWP, as the levels of PGCS and XG increased, cooking time, cooking loss and water absorption increased.
The hardness of GF pasta decreased as the level of PGCS increased.
Sensory quality showed that pasta containing BRF : PGCS/EWP/XG at the level of 95 : 5/10/5 gained the highest liking score in terms of appearance, aroma, texture as well as overall liking, both with and without pasta sauce.
The purchase intention of the selected GF pasta was up to 78%.
The protein content was 12.1% which was comparable to the protein content of the commercial wheat pasta based on a serving size of 50 g.
Study on Thermal Properties of Plastering Mortar Mixed with Paraffin and Polyethylene Glycol Type Phase Change Material
This manuscript presents the research results from a study of the temperature and heat retention of plaster mortar mixed with two types of phase change materials: Paraffin 6035 (58°C melting point) and Polyethylene Glycol 1450 (melting point between 42–46°C).
The plaster mortar used in the experiment consisted of Ordinary Mortar (OM), paraffin wax mortar (PPM), and polyethylene glycol (PEGM) mortar mixed in different proportions.
The specimen preparation began with the plastering surface of the concrete block, installing temperature gauges (thermocouple) at various positions of the sample, and wrapping the sample with plastic sheeting until the testing date.
For the laboratory testing, the test specimen was put in a temperature chamber with a spotlight as a heat source until the specimen surface temperature reached 60°C and then stopped.
The change in temperature was recorded every 5 seconds during the experiment.
The test results were analyzed in order to determine the optimal mixing ratio for further field testing.
In the field test, the mortars with mixed proportions selected from the laboratory test were plastered on the surfaces of the concrete block walls with a thickness of 1.5 cm. Real-time temperature changes in the environment were measured for 5 days at the same time for all samples.
It was found that the plaster walls with the phase change material showed better heat retention and delayed the time to reach the peak temperature, which also led to a lowering of the internal temperatures.
White Stain Reduction in Electroplating Process of Flexible Printed Circuit Board by Using Design of Experiment
This research aims to determine a factor setting that can reduce the white stain problem in the electroplating process of flexible printed circuit boards using the QXS model, which on average occurs in 2.77% of one production batch.
We first evaluated the performance of inspectors by using attribute agreement analysis (AAA) to ensure that they performed well for checking for a white stain.
Second, a factorial experiment with 3 replicates was conducted in order to determine the proper factor setting for the concerned factors, which were the pH of nickel solution, current density, and water changing frequency.
The results showed that the proper factor setting was to use the nickel solution with the pH of 3 and a current density of 3.0 A/dm2, and to change the water every day.
Based on this setting, the white stain problem was reduced to 0.41%, which would lead to a factory savings cost of 98,000 baht per month on average.
Scientific and Technical Workforce Requirements in Thailand
Thai industry has been growing rapidly since 1961.
We classify this development into 4 phases: 1) labor intensive, 2) capital intensive, 3) technology intensive and 4) knowledge intensive.
We use proportions of basic skilled workers to technical skilled workers as milestones for the phase indicator.
In this paper, we discuss the vitality of workforce in Thai industrial development, specifically scientific and technical workforce.
We discover that over 70 percent of Thai labors are non-skilled workers in addition to the immense demand for workforce holding high vocational certificates or university level qualifications.
Extracting Silica from Biomass Fly Ash by Using Alkaline Hydrothermal Treatment and Silica Precipitation by Using Organic Acids
This study aims to investigate the optimal condition to extract and precipitate silica from biomass fly ash.
Results showed that the best condition to extract silica from fly ash in this study was by treating fly ash with 3M NaOH solution using fly ash-to-solution ratio of 1 : 10 g/ml at 90oC for 24 h.
The findings indicate that these studied variables are of importance to the dissolution of silica from biomass fly ash.
In the study on precipitating silica using organic acid solution, results showed that the use of citric acid and precipitation condition at pH of 4 were the appropriate conditions by giving the maximum silica precipitation (98.5%).
This was because of sufficient acidic conditions to precipitate silica and the appropriate dissociation constant of organic acid.
The obtained silica was analyzed by using X-ray diffraction was amorphous silica.
X-ray fluorescence analysis showed that the obtained product was mainly composed of silica at 95.6%.
Therefore, the use of biomass fly ash as a raw material for silica production is an interesting way to enhance value for biomass fly ash.
Trends and Direction of Changing in Mega Factors to Affecting Thailand Taking off to New Heights in the Industry 4.0
The trends and directions of social, economic and political changes at the mega or global level are determined by five fundamental changes at the macro level:
1)the rise of middle class that affects overall performance of the economy in Asia;
2)changes in the global framework of political culture due to the influence of mass media;
3)global economic power shifting from West to East;
4)scientific-technological transformations to Industry 4.0; and
5)alterations of energy, environment and safety-related issues.
These changes are going to have global and regional impacts on future growth and direction of economic and industry sectors.
Thailand is among the nations encountering such transformation, it is deemed necessary that the people and the industrial sectors be aware of critical factors enabling the country’s growth and industrial development.
In so doing, the national development plan can be set out, and thus facilitates the organization’s strategic planning.
The corporate strategy corresponding to the transformation structure will result in Thailand’s potential toward sustainable growth and industrial development goals.
Trends and Direction of Changing in Mega Factors to Affecting Thailand Taking off to New Heights in the Industry 4.0
The trends and directions of social, economic and political changes at the mega or global level are determined by five fundamental changes at the macro level:
1) the rise of middle class that affects overall performance of the economy in Asia;
2) changes in the global framework of political culture due to the influence of mass media;
3) global economic power shifting from West to East;
4) scientific-technological transformations to Industry 4.0; and
5) alterations of energy, environment and safety-related issues.
These changes are going to have global and regional impacts on future growth and direction of economic and industry sectors.
Thailand is among the nations encountering such transformation, it is deemed necessary that the people and the industrial sectors be aware of critical factors enabling the country’s growth and industrial development.
In so doing, the national development plan can be set out, and thus facilitates the organization’s strategic planning.
The corporate strategy corresponding to the transformation structure will result in Thailand’s potential toward sustainable growth and industrial development goals.
Design of a Database Program for Reducing Searching Time of History and Detail of Container Mainte
The objective of this research was to reduce the time needed to search thehistory of container maintenance by using a database program.
The research is a case study of a transport and distribution center company in Thailand.
The maintenance department in charge of the containers has a number of files for recording container maintenance, and this database program can help to search the maintenance records more quickly and conveniently.
According to the results of an on-site test, by comparing the search time for the existing system and the new system, it was seen that the new system reduced the search time from 4 minutes 43 seconds (283 second) to 55 seconds.
This means that the search time was reduced by 80.57%, which makes it more convenient to search the history of container maintenance.
Development of a Database System for Managing Spare Parts in Engineering and Maintenance Department: A Case Study in Coil Center Industry
The objective of this research is to develop a database management system in the engineering and maintenance department by improving inventory parts data collection methods.
It aims to improve working performance, improve searching time of the parts and reduce the mean time to repair machine.
Presently, the parts disbursement controlling problems found at the case study factory are caused from the data management and the data record which is complicated and double searching.
According to double ordering parts waiting, the average searching time for parts is 34 minutes.
The Management Information System (MIS) is applied by using Microsoft Access 2010 program to develop and solve the problem.
Referring to the program, comparing with the previous system, it can be concluded that the new developed database system can reduce the working time by 31.99 minutes to 1.44 minutes or 95.69 percent.
As a result, the database system can increase the performance of maintenance section.
Knowledge Management Model Leading to Intellectual Capital in Telecommunication Industry
The objectives of the research of Knowledge Management Model Leading to Intellectual Capital in Telecommunication Industry were to:
1) study the components of knowledge management model leading to intellectual capital in telecommunication industry,
2) study the factors influencing the knowledge management model leading to intellectual capital in telecommunication industry,
3) develop a knowledge management model leading to intellectual capital in telecommunication industry, and
4) create a manual of knowledge management model leading to intellectual capital in telecommunication industry.
The research applied a mixed method of qualitative and quantitative approaches.
Qualitative data were obtained by using in-depth interview with the knowledge management and telecommunication industry professionals and were analyzed by content analysis.
Quantitative data were obtained by using the questionnaires with participants working in telecommunication industry and were analyzed by using the structural equation modeling (SEM).
Focus-group discussion was applied to confirm knowledge management model and to approve the knowledge management manual leading to intellectual capital in telecommunication industry.
The research results indicated that knowledge management model leading to intellectual capital in telecommunication industry based on assumptions was consistent with the pertinent empirical data that the knowledge management processes and the success factors of knowledge management had a positive influence on the intellectual capital in telecommunication industry, and the success factors of knowledge management had a positive influence on the knowledge management processes.
The knowledge management manual leading to intellectual capital in telecommunication industry was composed of 3 parts: Part 1: Introduction; Part 2: The dimensions and the model of the knowledge management; Part 3: Guideline for enhancing intellectual capital.
The model and the knowledge management manual leading to intellectual capital in telecommunication industry were approved with consensus agreement for the appropriateness in application.
During festivals or long weekend, people often drive to travel or visit their hometown, which results in a great number of cars on many major highways.
It is observed that the traffic stream on these highways flows under stop-and-go condition due to the occurrence of bottlenecks.
This study aimed to explore ways to locate the bottlenecks on highways.
Data were collected by driving along Mittraphap Road from Nakhon Ratchasima to Khon Kaen during the beginning of New Year (December 27–29, 2013), which was a total of 16 trips.
Each trip started every three hours and a designated survey form was used to record the locations of the bottlenecks as well as factors contributing to their occurrences.
The findings revealed 97 locations of the bottlenecks and 12 factors causing their occurrences.
Binary logistic regression model was utilized to analyze and build forecasting models, which differed primarily in such factors as types of gas stations and overpasses.
It was found that the most efficient model was the model using PTT gas stations and unclassified overpasses.
Automation System Assisting Commencement Ceremony Rehearsal
This paper presents an automation system that assists rehearsals for the commencement ceremony.
As individual representatives' fatigue solutions from long rehearsal hours, a working robot arm is used for delivering certificates in replacement of manual procedures.
The system is required to completely perform its respective duties as to get prepared for any disruptions during rehearsals.
The developed automation system consists of a robot arm, a certificate dispenser machine, and a hand detector, all of which must perform correspondingly.
The system is designed to be automatic and is controlled by a microcontroller, making it cheap, light weight, with fast-reacting robotic limbs Robotic mechanical functions must conform to the graduates' grasping motions.
According to the running test, the robotic arm can carry out certificate delivery with precision.
Furthermore, the mechanical limb is supposed to wait by itself during individual pickup before executing its further cycle.
This research studied the chloride diffusion coefficient of recycled aggregate concretes containing fly ash exposed to marine environment for 3 years.
Mae-Moh fly ash were used to replace Portland cement at the percentages of 0, 15, 25, 35, and 50 by weight of binder with the water to binder (W/B) ratios of 0.40, 0.45, and 0.50 in the mixtures.
Concrete cube specimens of 200×200×200 mm3 were cast and placed in the tidal zone of marine environment for 3 years.
Chloride diffusion coefficients of the specimens were determined according to Fick’s second law of diffusion.
The research found that chloride diffusion coefficients of recycled aggregate concretes containing fly ash were significantly lower than those of recycled aggregate concretes without any fly ash.
Smaller in W/B ratio also lessened chloride penetration coefficient especially in recycled aggregate concretes without any fly ash.
Considering ACI 201.2R recommendation, use of Mae-Moh fly ash to replace Portland cement between 15 and 25 percent by weight of binder with the W/B ratio of 0.40 in the mixture would be suggested to satisfy both compressive strength and chloride penetration resistance of recycled aggregate concretes exposed to marine environment.
According to CO2 emission has increased up to now and it is a causes of the global warming in the consequence.
CCS (Carbon dioxide Capture and Storage) is an effective tool to mitigate CO2 emission, but surface uplifting due to reservoir expansion is a problem caused by CSS project that needs to be concerned.
This research aims to studies and shows a significant property of the fluids that are injected into suitable reservoirs in order to mitigate global warming problems.
The laboratory tests and the geomechanical model are simulated rock deformations caused by CO2 injection for CCS projects.
The results show that the different fluid properties produced the different rock deformations.
The fluids that has a high mobility and penetration resulted a high number of the rock deformations.
Consequently, the pore pressure is not a single factor for a calculation of the rock deformations, the fluid property also plays an important role for the rock deformation and should be paid more attention.
Study of Solidification Shrinkage Behavior in Cast Irons by Linear Displacement Method
This research aims to study the solidification behavior in Gray Iron (GI), Compacted Graphite Iron (CGI) and Ductile Iron (DI).
In order to achieve this goal, the special equipment was devised by applying a linear displacement method.
The equipment consisted of spherical additive-manufactured sand molds encased in steel jackets.
The jackets were equipped with a thermocouple and quartz rod (connected to the LVDT) to record the temperature and the displacement simultaneously.
Irons with various Carbon Equivalent (CE) 3.7, 4.0, 4.3 and 4.6 were produced for this experiment.
It was found that the contraction and the expansion behaviors of three types of cast irons exhibited slight differences.
The graphite expansion and graphite expansion time increased with increasing carbon equivalent ranged from 0.2–1.8 mm and 230–450 s respectively.
In addition, the austenite shrinkage was observed for some conditions at CE lower than 4.3. No significant difference was seen between types of irons.
Software Engineering Prospective on Digital Game-Based Learning for Thailand Education 4.0
Nowadays, there is technology awareness and adaptation in social, economic and education because of disruptive technology.
Game is the result in digital edge in which people in any genders, ages, and education levels are able to access.
Game is widely attracted by all people.
On the other hand, there is anxiety over game that it may lead to aggressive behaviour of the individual and may affect the society.
This article investigated some research relating to game-based learning in Thailand.
The software engineering perspective required for the development of learning game with quality is presented.
Game is realised as a tool for teaching and learning both inside and outside a classroom.
Game development is relied on both software engineering principles and learning outcome of the subject.
The author aims to make the better understanding and to create the optimistic attitudes in the evolution of education in order to adapt to and use technology in an appropriate way.
This research proposed to study milk fouling in the flow channels of shell and tube heat exchangers used in the raw milk preheating process.
The study considered the formation of fouling by probing the changes in the pressure drop across a 2-meter long milk fouling test unit.
The effect of flow rates (4,000 l/h, 9,000 l/h and 12,000 l/h) was studied at a controlled hot water temperature (80°C) at a fixed experimental period of 2 hours.
It was found that, at higher flow rate, the pressure drop was lower with thinner calculated scale layer thickness ranging from 1.42 cm to 0.53 cm and 0.17 cm, respectively.
This might be because the protein ß-Lactoglobulin could not attach and spread out easily on the heat exchanger surface at high flow rates.
As a result, the efficiency of the heat exchanger was increased, leading to lower energy consumption and longer production time.
In addition, this research proposed to use a theoretical model to link between the calculated scale layer thickness and the reduction of heat transfer.
This model was proved by comparing with the actual plant operation to work well and could be used for the economic evaluation of the process.
It was found that by increasing the flow rate from 9,000 l/h to 12,000 l/h, the cleaning cycle could be delayed from every 8 h to every 17 h, leading to significant saving in the dairy industry.
Electric overhead travelling cranes play an important materials handling role in industry.
They are used to move material of varying weights, with varying frequencies , and for varying the lengths of continuous operation.
Each industry has different needs in each of these areas.
Because of the critical role of overhead travelling cranes, they should not be classified only according to lift capacity.
Consideration should be also be given to working potential (hours/times/day) and continuous working ability.
In general, the standards that are used around the world to classify electric hoists follow those developed by the FEM (European Federation of Materials Handling).
These are widely accepted, especially in the countries of the European Union.
This standard is primarily divided into four categories: light duty hoists, medium duty hoists, heavy duty hoists, and very heavy duty hoists.
The classification of the hoists within these categories is based on frequency of use (times per day), length of use (hours per time ), and the amount of time during the work that the hoist operates at full load. These allow for proper consideration of the differing needs of each industry.
This study investigates and develops a process of fact handling in the legal expert system involving a court hearing process and a process of an argumentation between a plaintiff and a defendant.
To develop a legal expert system, it is necessary to prepare a legal knowledge base and a set of facts for the system to deduce a legal reasoning to get the legal conclusion.
In the legal expert system, user will input a set of facts to obtain a legal result from the system.
In this work, we design a legal knowledge base and implement to handle a conflicted fact which is occurred from the input of the user.
Moreover, we propose a process to manage estoppel which is a fact that Thai law does not allow a party to prove.
The legal knowledge created from Thai Civil and Commercial Code law and the test cases are obtained from Thai Supreme court sentences.
We compared the results of the proposed legal expert system with a traditional legal expert system.
The results show that the proposed legal expert system can give correct legal result and adjudication.
Moreover, the system can reduce the steps of a burden of proof from O(n) to O(1).
Virtualization technology consolidates a number of servers to work together in a single hardware platform.
Since memory is a shared resource in the virtual environment, it is necessary to allocate memory to all virtual servers.
Initially, static memory allocation was the only way to allocate memory to virtual servers.
At present, it is possible to have dynamic memory allocation, which has been introduced by Microsoft Hyper-V.
However, this allocation requires some resources to be performed that cause overhead costs regarding energy consumption.
Therefore, this research was performed in order to find differences in the power consumption in the virtual server environment when using static and dynamic memory allocation.
The experiment was set up to measure power consumption on I/O and memory-intensive applications in the same virtual server environment;
one experiment used static memory allocation and the other used dynamic memory allocation.
We found that the power consumption of the dynamic memory allocation was 5–10% more than that of the static memory allocation, and this number can be reduced to 0.16–1.02% by setting the memory buffer value to 20%.
In application requirements focusing on energy savings, it is recommended that the static memory allocation should be applied to both I/O and memory-intensive applications .
If the dynamic memory allocation is a must in virtual machines, we recommend setting up the memory buffer value to 20% for the best results in terms of energy consumption with virtual servers.
The objectives of this study were to determine the 10-micron particulate matter (PM10) and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) levels in indoor air at a religious site in Thailand.
The 36 samples were collected at different sampling points; near the pollutant source (incense burner) and four meters from the pollutant source using a Deployable Particulate Sampler.
The relationships among the meteorological data, wind speed, temperature, relative humidity, and PM10 and PAHs levels were also determined.
The results showed that the PM10 mean levels were 677.83–719.83 μg/m3, the PAHs mean levels were 4.07–5.38 ng/m3, and the PM10 and PAHs levels at different sampling points were not significantly different.
The relationship results showed that temperature was negatively related with the PM10 at 95% confidence interval, but the wind speed and relative humidity were not shown to be significantly related with the PM10 and PAHs levels.
Inverse problems could be described as the relationship between system inputs and outputs.
In general, a solution obtained from numerical solving for an inverse problem is said to be unstable.
So the inverse problems can be ill-posed problems according to the Hadamand’s criteria.
By relaxing the process of solving the problem with the corresponding regularization theorem, the stability of the solution will be obtained.
In this review article, the mathematical analysis for solving inverse problems and a comprehensive account of regularization theorem are presented.
Finally, we show some examples for solving local volatility in financial derivatives which is deemed an important aspect of inverse problems concerning the field of applied mathematics for finance.
This research studies the problems, obstacles, and components of the competency of executive secretaries, and as a result, a competency development model and manual for executive secretaries can be created.
Representative samples were drawn from management and executive secretaries from industrial manufacturing companies and service industries in Thailand.
The research instruments comprised in-depth interviews and a survey where the collected data were analyzed by calculating frequency, percentage, average, standard deviation, and content analysis.
As a result, it was seen that the components of the competency of executive secretaries consist of the following: 1) attitude, 2) traits, 3) skills, and 4) knowledge.
Consequently the competency development model for the executive secretaries consists of 23 competencies with 4 components: 1) confidentiality protection, 2) service mindedness, 3) positive attitude, 4) personal appreciation for secretarial work, 5) abiding by professional ethics, 6) integrity, 7) responsibility, 8) good personality, 9) positive human relations, 10) work discipline, 11) intelligence at work, 12) time management and prioritization, 13) effective assignment planning to meet a corresponding due date, 14) planning and preparing information for executives, 15) adapting one’s working style to accommodate the preferences of executives, 16) ability to perform several jobs at the same time, 17) ability to use modern technological advancement, 18) good command of English, 19) good knowledge of the secretarial field, 20) knowledge of business and organizational structures, 21) abilities and skills related to public relations, 22) knowledge of organizations contacted and with which transactions were made, and 23) knowledge of customer relationship management.
The developed model and the manual of the competency development for executive secretaries were found to be suitable in terms of form and practical application.
The main objectives of the research were; firstly, to study different desirable characteristics of selfemployed auto repair entrepreneurs whose services are offered on Thai-Laos borders over the Mekong Region; and secondly, to create and design a professional service manual for this target group.
The study sample group consisted of 300 independent auto repair entrepreneurs providing services over Thai-Laos borders.
Data gathering involves the use of a 5-pont Likert scale questionnaire, an in-depth interviews with 5 experts and conducting focus groups with 17 high-performing experts.
Confirmatory factor analysis using LISREL and content analysis were conducted.
The results reveal that 1) The model of desirable characteristics of the independent auto repair entrepreneurs consists of 5 main components, precisely self-development skills; business management abilities; technical-functional competencies; along with intercultural and interpersonal capacities 2) According to a thorough assessment by experts, the entrepreneurship development manual designed and developed for the target groups has been found to be effective.
The purpose of this study is to explore staff-students’ opinions on the readiness of Thai skilled workforce in facing pressures of trading competition within the ASEAN Economic Community under the ASEAN Framework Agreement on Services.
The investigation was carried out among students, faculty members and staff members across disciplines of Engineering, Accountancy, and Tourism of institutions of higher learning in Chiengmai and Lampang provinces.
Questionnaires were used for gathering information from relevant target groups. (n = 546).
As results, the readiness of Thai skilled workers (professionals) was demonstrated in a high level among these categories: ASEAN Awareness (83.15%); traits of citizenship (Xbar= 4.12); occupational and life skills (Xbar= 3.75); transparency and accountability (Xbar= 3.75); positive work relationships and teamwork competency (Xbar= 3.74); professional at work (Xbar= 3.73); innovative and learning behavior (Xbar= 3.66); health literacy (Xbar= 3.66); citizenship (Xbar= 3.59); along with information media and technology literacy (Xbar= 3.52).
The following constituents indicate moderate readiness of skilled workers in Thailand: ethnic and racial literacy (Xbar= 3.49); project administration competencies in tourism discipline (Xbar= 3.49); business administration, economic and financial literacy (Xbar= 3.48); competences in business and organizational management (Xbar= 3.47); technical skills and specialist knowledge (Xbar= 3.47); multidisciplinary thinking (Xbar= 3.47); capabilities of application of innovation (Xbar= 3.46); professional skills competencies and skill assessment (Xbar= 3.42); creative media production skills (Xbar= 3.42); global information technology readiness (Xbar= 3.34) together with science-based performance appraisal (Xbar= 3.31).
Additionally, Thai skilled workforce expose intermediate English level proficiency (reading, writing, listening, and speaking domains) (Xbar= 2.67) alongside a relatively low level of mandarin literacy (Xbar= 1.80).
Thin Layer Drying Model of Carrot Using a Heat Pump Vacuum Dryer
This thesis article was purposed to study the thin layer drying model of carrot by using a heat pump vacuum dryer for predicting the moisture ratio of drying product.
In experiment, carrot was sliced at size as; thickness 0.5 cm, diameter 3 cm, initial moisture content 10.11 d.b.
It was dried with constant temperature at 60 ํC, drying pressure at 0.2, 0.5 and 0.7 bar, hot air velocity constant at 1.2 m/s and collected mass of drying product at interval 5 minute.
The drying process was finished when mass of carrot slices was constant.
From experimental result, moisture content and moisture ratio was decreased with increased drying time, drying time was decreased with decreased drying pressure.
At drying condition with temperature 60 ํC, drying pressure 0.2 bar, moisture content was rapidly decreased and drying time was fastest about 330 minutes.
The results analysis of thin layer drying models by using non-linear regression method it was found that, the Midilli model was good agreement with experimental data for carrot slices drying at temperature 60 ํC and drying pressure 0.2, 0.7 bar by using a heat pump vacuum dryer.
Reducing Sugar Production from Empty Fruit Bunches with Enzyme Cellic Ctec2®
Oil Palm Empty Fruit Bunch (OPEFB) was an agricultural residue that consists mostly of lignocellulosic material (57.88% cellulose, 23.81% hemicellulose and 16.51% lignin by weight).
In this study, OPEFB was pretreated with 10, 15 and 20% (w/v) of sodium hydroxide for 60 minutes.
The best pretreatment of OPEFB was 15% of sodium hydroxide.
The result of pretreatment showed that the percentage of cellulose increased by 14.28% and the percentages of lignin decreased by 3.41%.
After that, the pretreated OPEFB was hydrolyzed by Cellic Ctec2®enzyme with substrate loading of 5, 7, 10 and 15% (w/v), enzyme loading of 20 FPU/g substrate and 140 rpm for 5 days.
The highest reducing sugar from OPEFB was 85.79 g·L–1 by using 10% substrate loading for 5 days.
The reducing sugar consists of 60.29 g/L of glucose and 12.51 g/L of xylose by HPLC analysis.
High Speed Turbine Aerators with Air Feeding into Hollowed Shaft
This research aims to study and fabricate a high speed submerged turbine aerator in pilot scale.
All aeration experiments were conducted in a glass square tank with dimension of 50×50×50 cm, tested water volume of 100 l, air flowrate of 15 l/min.
Three types of turbine, namely, Flat Disc–6–Blade Turbine, 45° Pitch–4–Blade Turbine and 45° Flat Disc–6–Blade Turbine were studied with various rotor speeds in the range of 800 to 1200 rpm.
Results showed that the 45° Flat Disc–6–Blade Turbine gave the maximum Standard Aeration Efficiency (SAED) of 1.334 kgO2/kW-h at 800 rpm of the rotor speed.
Effect of Copper and Iron Loading on Zeolite Y for Carbon Dioxide Adsorption
The concentration of carbon dioxide is increasing significantly and it affected global warming.
Therefore; this research was to study CO2 adsorption and metal loading on zeolite Y.
Bagasse ash was used as a source of silica instead of sodium silicate for NaY synthesis.
CO2 adsorption efficiency was improved using copper and iron loading into zeolite via incipient wetness impregnation method.
The results showed that at 300°C with 5.5 wt.%Cu/Zeolite Y could adsorb 67.06% of CO2 and 1 wt.%Fe/Zeolite Y could adsorb 61.14%.
Moreover, Cu and Fe loading with 5.5wt%Cu-1wt.%Fe/Zeolite Y reached high CO2 adsorption at 82.40%.
For the adsorption temperature of 100°C, 300°C and 600°C, the highest efficiency of CO2 adsorption was at 100°C.
Silver Removal from Computer Keyboards with Metallic Replacement
This research aims to study the removal of silver from computer keyboards with the metallic replacement.
The computer keyboards are separated and soaked in various concentration of nitric acid, different reaction times and temperatures as to determine the optimal conditions.
As a result, the amount of silver removal from the 1:15 ratio of the computer keyboard to 3 M nitric acid, at 50°C, with 8 hr.
operation time is demonstrated at 2.65 percent by mass.
The quality of the silver analyzed with X-ray Diffractometer (XRD) is 100% pure.
The operating cost for silver removal from computer keyboards with the metallic replacement is 76.39 Baht for one gram of silver.
Synthesis of Carbon Nanomaterials Using Stainless Steel Type 304 as Substrate and Catalyst by Chemical Vapor Deposition Method
This research aim is to study the direct synthesis of carbon nanomaterials by chemical vapor depositionusing 304 stainless steel as both catalyst and substrate at 650°C.
The ratio of mixing gases (acetylene, hydrogen and nitrogen) in chamber is controlled to constant value at 1:1:2 with a total flow rate of 400 ml/min for 20 min.
Besides that, the surface treatment of 304 stainless steel substrate was performed in the atmospheric of hydrogen and nitrogen before providing acetylene as a carbon source for 15 min.
The microphotograph results from FE-SEM and TEM can be used in order to investigate the physical morphology of the obtained carbon nanomaterials.
Three types of carbon nanomaterials that can be synthesized are carbon nanotubes, carbon fibers and bamboo carbon nanotubes.
Effects of Electrolytes on Zinc Deposition onto a Nickel Foam
The electrodeposition of zinc on nickel foam was prepared to use as an anode.
The effects of potassium hydroxide (KOH) or zinc sulfate (ZnSO4) on the deposition of Zn dendrite at different current density were investigated.
The morphology characterization of Zn dendrite was performed using Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM).
The Zn anode prepared at the current density of 0.8A and using ZnSO4 as electrolyte showed a good morphology called compact.
It gave a specific discharge of 210 cycles for more than 5 hours.
Dispersion of Basalt Fibers in Solution
A study of basalt fibers dispersion in solution was to find the suitable conditions of dispersion.
Using basalt fibers is the other way to decrease asbestos which is dangerous for human health.
The problem of using basalt fibers in construction material was agglomeration of fibers.
The investigation of dispersion can solve this problem.
This work measured the electrical resistivity and turbidity of solution which were the indicator of basalt fibers dispersion.
The comparison of various ratio of basalt fibers and water found that at 1% by weight the dispersion was good.
Carboxy Methyl Cellulose (CMC) improved the dispersion.
At the same pH and ratio of dispersant, the electrical resistivity of CMC was lower than of latex.
pH at 5, 7 and 9 did not affect to the electrical resistivity as using CMC.
Effects of Functional Group and Surface Roughness on Adsorption of Carbon Dioxide in Porous Glass by Grand Canonical Monte Carlo Sim
Adsorption of carbon dioxide in porous glass with different widths varying from 10-60 Å at 283 K are studied in this research using Monte Carlo simulation method.
The molecular model of porous glass is assumed to be composed of SiO4 crystal and the atoms in it are laid in different planes.
Two layers of crystal are parallel and perpendicular to the z-axis, the distance between these crystal layers is defined as the pore width (H).
The porous glass surfaces are contained either functional groups or defects, it is found that the adsorption increases rapidly at low pressures and then it gradually increases with pressure.
The functional groups show insignificant effect on adsorption isotherm, while an early onset in adsorption isotherm is observed in the case of surface roughness.
Study for Adsorption of Gas Mixture in Activated Carbon by Grand Canonical Monte Carlo Simulation
Adsorption isotherm and adsorption selectivity of carbon dioxide-methane mixture in slit-shaped pore model are investigated in this study.
The simulation has been carried out by Grand Canonical Monte Carlo Simulation (GCMC) method.
The adsorption isotherm of gas mixture in different pore widths is studied at various temperatures from 293.15 to 318.15 K.
We also vary the mole fraction of gas mixture.
It is found that the adsorption and selectivity increase with total pressure, while they decrease when the temperature increases.
The adsorption also decreases when the pore width increases.
When the mole fraction of carbon dioxide in gas mixture increases, the adsorption increases while the selectivity decreases significantly.
Performance Improvement for Gas Turbine by Inlet Air Cooling Method
This paper studies the performance improvement for gas turbine with a capacity of 292 MW by applying the inlet air cooling method.
The effect of operating conditions on the performance of gas turbine is simulated by using the computational program, Aspen Hysys version 8.6.
The simulation was verified with the actual modified operating condition at the ambient air temperature of 34°C and the relative humidity of 49%.
The current study compares the effect of inlet air cooling in 3 cases which are 1) Normal operation (without the inlet air cooling system), 2) With the fogging spray system, 3) With the electric chiller system.
The results indicated that the gas turbine with the fogging spray system and the electric chiller system can increase the power output by 7.02% and 13%, respectively.
Inventory Management of Spare Parts under Uncertain Demand: A Case Study of Particle Board Manufacturer
The Inventory management consists of a couple important factors that the top management is always paying attention.
These are Total Cost and Service level.
This kind of research focuses on cost analysis and decision support for top management trade-off.
The researcher uses the stochastic model called Monte-Carlo Simulation to find out which purchasing policy is optimal in term of total cost and service level.
The purchasing policies are
1) the current purchasing policy
2) the purchasing policy from EOQ ROP formula and
3) the purchasing policy from Microsoft Excel Solver, the results of the calculations and simulations found that the total cost of the 3rd purchasing policy is the lowest total cost and it provides a similar service level with other policies.
Effect of Chromium Loading on Diatomite for the Synthesis of Dimethyl Ether from Methanol
This research investigates the results of catalytic methanol dehydration for synthesis of dimethyl ether using chromium on diatomite catalyst with different the metal loading.
The reactions were performed in pack-bed reactor at temperature between 250 to 350°C.
According to the experimental results, the conversion of methanol increased with the increase of chromium loading on diatomite catalyst.
DME selectivity was up to 99 percent.
The surface acidity increased due to chromium loading, whereas the surface areas decreased.
It was found that metal oxide loading and surface acidity affected reaction rates more than the surface area of the catalyst.
Finally, 15%Cr/DM catalyst give high methanol conversion at 91.7 percent and it has exhibited good stability during the 12 hour experiment.
The catalyst has shown efficient synthesis of dimethyl ether from methanol.
Extraction of essential oil from lemon basil (Ocimum citriodourum) straw using hexane, supercritical carbon dioxide (SCCO2) and hydrodistillation was investigated in this study.
The extracted samples were subjected to GC-MS to analyze the composition.
The extraction yield of hexane in Soxhlet extractor was highest as 4.04%.
The extraction yields of supercritical carbon dioxide (350 bar and 70oC) and hydrodistillation were 1.5% and 0.29%, respectively.
The main components in essential oil from hexane extraction were caryophyllene oxide, neral, and geranial which were similar to sample from supercritical carbon dioxide extraction.
The major components in essential oil from hydrodistillation were caryophyllene oxide, trans-alpha-bergamotene and linalool.
Chitosan membrane equipped in an apparatus was used to separate water vapor evaporated from moist paddy out of the apparatus.
The said apparatus was called “membrane dryer”.
This study aimed at developing an alternative approach of paddy drying instead of the traditional open air technique which commonly encounter rainy or flooding problems.
The prototype of membrane dryer was designed from mathematical air flow pattern analysis results.
It was found that the airflow in overflow mode with triangular air flow path was the desired feature of the dryer.
The performance results showed that the dryer using uncrosslinked dense and compositeon- spunbond chitosan membranes presented the highest drying rate in the first hour at 0.0464±0.0004 and 0.0578±0.0009 kg water/kg wet mass, respectively.
As compared the drying rate by an open air technique and a hot air oven at 40°C of 0.0527±0.0011 and 0.0402±0.0007 kg water/kg wet mass respectively, the chitosan membrane dryer could be used as an alternative in drying biomass such as paddy.
It was found that the uncrosslinked composite chitosan membrane dryer could reduce the moist paddy from 22–23% to 14–15% within 2 hours.
One of several energy resources is electricity, which plays a significant role in driving the economic growth of Thailand and has been increasingly used in past decades continuously.
In order to gain a reliable and efficient system of power supply handling, the future peak electricity demand, which is inevitably uncertain, will play a crucial role.
Therefore, the peak electricity demand has to be predicted by using the most appropriate forecasting models.
In this research, a hybrid model of the Support Vector Machine (SVM) and Genetic Algorithm (GA) is proposed in order to forecast future peak demand.
The motivation of the proposed model was to develop a complex model that takes advantage of the capability of the SVM model to formulate a predictive complex model.
Even though the SVM model is more attractive in terms of forecasting, its performance relies heavily on the appropriate selection of the SVM hyper-parameters.
In this regard, the GA was introduced to search for the optimal hyper-parameters of the SVM model.
In order to evaluate the performance of the proposed model, it was compared with traditional single forecasting models (i.e., ARIMA and SVM) based on six measures of forecast accuracy.
The empirical results indicated that the proposed model outperforms those compared models.
Furthermore, the proposed model is able to reduce the errors of the ARIMA model and the SVM model at at least 7.78% and 5.72%, respectively.
Mince of Julian’s golden carp was used as raw material in producing surimi with the washing cycles of 1, 2 and 3 times at the weight ratio of mince fish to water at 1:4.
Then, the washed mince fish was analyzed for its chemical composition compared with that of unwashed one.
The results revealed that washing resulted in protein increasing from 88.26 to 97.30%, but the number of washing cycles showed no significant difference in protein content (p≥0.05).
However, the pH increased significantly with the higher number of washing cycles (p<0.05) while fat and ash content tended to be lower.
Surimi gel was prepared by chopping surimi and mixed with 3% salt to obtain sol.
The sol was then, incubated in warm water at 40 deg Celsius for 30 minutes prior to heating in hot water at 90 deg Celsius for 30 minutes.
The result showed that surimi gel had higher breaking force, deformation, and whiteness than that of normal mince fish gel.
Moreover, higher number of washing cycles yielded more whiteness (p<0.05) and higher deformation.
However, the higher number of washing cycles had no effect on breaking force and expressible drip (p≥0.05).
Nevertheless, the strength of surimi gel treated with different washing cycles was higher than that of the Thai Industrial Standard value of frozen mince fish (not less than 400 gm.cm) with the range between 1,017.35 and 1,175.30 gm.cm indicating that the produced surimi from Julian’s golden carp reached the standard quality which can be improved washing cycles.
However, 2 and 3 washing cycles resulted in no difference on breaking force, deformation, and expressible drip.
It can be concluded that 3 washing cycles yielded more whiteness, thus, was the most suitable treatment to gain Julian’s golden carp surimi with better quality.
This research is aimed at:
1) studying websites developed with responsive techniques,
2) examining user behaviours towards websites developed with the aforementioned techniques, and
3) evaluating user satisfaction on performance of responsive websites.
The website included as a part this case study was the one of the Faculty of Graduate Studies, Mahidol University.
The new website based on System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) was developed through responsive techniques, and rendering tests were performed on various devices, such as smartphones, tablets, desktop computers, etc.
Subsequently, comparative analysis between the use of old and new sites were performed through Google Analytics.
Users were enquired to indicate their overall satisfaction via an online questionnaire.
Samples were 1,850 prospective students, current students, alumni, researchers, and visitors.
The results indicated that:
1) Responsive web design could resolve web page rendering issues on different screen sizes: it supports correct and complete web page rendering, faster access to data, simplicity of usage, and enables the website to be modernized and more visually attractive;
2) Based on results of web behaviours from Google Analytics, the number of accesses from desktop computers decreased, as many users preferred to use smartphones and tablets for accessing the website, and the number of such assesses tended to increase; and
3) For website user satisfaction in terms of performance, satisfaction with speed to access contents on web pages was ranked in the highest position ( = 4.58), followed by satisfaction with website design ( = 4.28), and the simplicity of usage ( = 4.05), revealing high levels of user satisfaction in these domains.
Development Model of Knowledge Management System Enhancing the Organization Efficiency of the Hard Disk Drive Industry
This research aimed to: 1) identify the components of a knowledge management system, 2) create a model for such a system, and 3) develop a manual in order to enhance the organizational efficiency in the hard disk drive industry.
This research utilized a combined method of qualitative and quantitative approaches.
The qualitative data were obtained from in-depth interviews with experts in the hard disk drive industry while the quantitative data were obtained from the questionnaires responded to by the employees in this industry.
The model and the manual were validated and approved by industry experts.
The qualitative data were analyzed using content analysis, and the quantitative data were analyzed using percentage, mean (X), standard deviation (SD), and exploratory factor analysis.
The research found that the developed model for a knowledge management system enhancing the organization efficiency in the hard disk industry consisted of five key components: 1) the role of the knowledge management team, 2) the role of organizational support, 4) valuing and participating in knowledge management, and 5) motivation and mindfulness regarding knowledge management creation.
The manual comprised 2 parts: Part 1, the introduction; and Part 2, the management of the knowledge management system.
In Part 2 there were 2 sections which were further divided into 5 units.
The model and the manual for the management of the knowledge management system enhancing the organization efficiency in the hard disk drive industry were unanimously approved by experts for appropriateness in application.
The objective of this study was to examine the optimum conditions for coffee oil extraction from used coffee grounds (UCG) of Coffea canephora var.
robusta and Coffea arabica with hexane solvent through response surface methodology.
The operating variables of the extraction process were optimized by Central Composite Design (CCD), a subset of Response Surface Methodology (RSM), and it was analyzed by Minitab R.17 software.
The factors in this study including solvent to solid ratio (4 : 1–8 : 1 mL/g), extraction temperature (35–45ºC) and extraction time (15–45 min), a five-level rotatable CCD were used for experimental design.
A total of experimental conditions was 20 experiments.
These data were analyzed by non-linear quadratic correlation model.
The experimental results showed that each factor was correlated significantly with the other factors.
The optimum variables of extraction were as follows: solvent to solid ratio of 8.14 mL/g, extraction temperature of 46.97ºC and extraction time of 27.22 minutes, and the maximum oil yielded under these conditions was 13.04%.
The experiments performed under these conditions showed that the extracted oil yield was up to 13.08±0.20%, which related accurately with the prediction value.
The extracted coffee oil was characterized for their properties of free fatty acids, density, and viscosity.
The acid value of the extracted oil was about 3.70 mgNaOH/gOil suitable for esterification process.
The oil properties revealed the viscosity (49.65 cP at 40ºC) and the density of about 948 kg/m3.at 15ºC.
A Simple Device with a Smartphone Camera for Determination of Salicylic Acid in Foods, Drugs and Cosmetics
A simple colorimetric detection device using a smartphone camera was designed and developed for determination of salicylic acid in some foods, drugs, and cosmetics.
The reaction between salicylic acid and iron (III) chloride solution was employed to produce the violet solution, which was further analyzed for color intensity of red, green, and blue using the common color analysis application program.
As a result, intensity of green color showed the best linear relationship to the concentration of salicylic acid.
Under the optimum conditions, i.e. concentration of iron (III) chloride of 0.05% (weight/volume); the pH range of 2–9; and the reaction time of 30 minutes, the device was set to analyze salicylic acid content in 13 samples using 3 different camera resolution smartphones.
The smartphone with camera resolution of 12–13 megapixel provided consistent results with that obtained by UV-Vis spectrophotometry and showed good precision with percentage of relative standard deviation less than 5.
The concentration of salicylic acid in samples can be successfully determined by our simple device.
This experiment bring a significant benefit, serving as a guideline to create a simple tool for analyzing any colored substances, an ideal alternative for expensive, advanced instruments.
More importantly, the device can be used as a simple tool for teaching chemistry in the secondary education level.
Locating the Optimal Emergency Services Stations on Highway Using Maximal Covering Location Model: Case Study Nakhon Pathom Province
The objective of this research is to locate emergency highway service stations for roadside and medical emergencies in Nakhon Pathom province by using the Maximal Covering Location Model (MCLP).
The important parameters include the number of highway routes, 17 alternate routes in 30 zones, population in areas along the highway, the number of accidents and distances between the emergency service stations and the residential places in 74 districts.
To determine the optimal emergency stations, two coverage demands are considered; population trends and the number of accidents in the area.
Three types of service stations, classified by their coverages, are experimentally tested including small, medium, and large emergency service stations within 10 km, 15 km, and 20 km distances respectively.
As a result, 8 emergency service stations are needed for the maximum population coverage of 99.39% within 20 km., which handles 99.47% of total accidents.
Flood Susceptibility Mapping Using Geographic Information System and Frequency Ratio Analysis in the Lang Suan Watershed, Southern Thailand
Flood susceptibility map is one of the important tools for flood management planning.
Therefore, the objective of this study was to produce a flood susceptibility map for the Lang Suan Watershed, Southern Thailand, by using Geographic Information System (GIS) and Frequency Ratio analysis (FR) a well-known statistical method for susceptibility mapping.
In this study, 116 (70%) floods were used as training data and 8 flood conditioning factors, including 30-yr mean annual rainfall, road density, slope angle, elevation, drainage density, land use, soil drainage and distance from drainage for analysis, and 50 (30%) floods were used for validation of model by using the Area Under a Curve (AUC).
The results showed that the very low flood susceptibility area was the most area (47.78%) whereas the very high flood susceptibility area was the least area (7.39%).
On the other hand, the very high flood susceptibility area was the most community area (76 communities) whereas the low flood susceptibility area was the least community area (2 communities).
Moreover, it found that the model was highly efficient.
It produced a high accuracy value of AUC which had the success rate of 88.98% and the prediction rate of 84.98%.
Hence, it confirmed that the result could be used for supporting flood management planning to administration and organization in the Lang Suan watershed, especially the local administration and organization in high and very high flood susceptibility area that was the dangerous area and population density (115 communities), such as Hat Yai, Wang Tako, Pho Daeng, Na Phaya and Ban Khaun Sub-District, Lang Suan District, Chumphon Province.
Energy Absorption and Failure Patterns of Multilayer Bulletproof Concrete Panel Made of Steel Fiber, Styrofoam and Para-rubber
This study presents the preliminary test results from the multilayer bulletproof concrete panel project.
The tested multilayer panel consisted of steel fiber reinforced concrete (SFRC), Para-rubber and Styrofoam sheet.
In this study, the focus was on the investigation of the failure patterns and energy absorption of each material with different thickness subjected to direct fire arm with 9 mm bullets.
The obtained information will later be used in designing the multilayer bulletproof concrete panel based on combination of energy absorption.
The results showed that the energy absorption of each material increased with the increasing thickness.
In case of SFRC, the energy absorption also depended on fiber type and volume fractions.
Comparing at the same thickness, SFRC was the most effective energy absorption followed by Para-rubber and Styrofoam sheet respectively.
Development of Quality Management in Water Distribution Maintenance System Model for Branch Office of Metropolitan Waterworks Authority
The purposes of this research comprise:
1) to study the guidelines of water distribution maintenance management for branch offices of Metropolitan Waterworks Authority;
2) to develop a quality management model for the stated purpose; and
3) to create a guideline process manual of the quality management model for branch offices.
The mix methods integrating quantitative and qualitative approaches were applied.
The research populations were the Deputy Governor, the Assistant Governor, the Branch Office Directors and the Maintenance Division Directors.
The tools used in this study were semi-structured interviews, questionnaire and evaluation manual.
Means and standard deviations were analyzed to report data.
The results showed four dimensions for the purposed model: People having 8 components, Planning having 9 components, Process having 12 components and Performance having 11 components respectively, totally 40 components.
The experts considered and evaluated the appropriateness of the manual content.
The developed model was found suitable and can be further adopted for quality and operations management.
Extraction of Active Compounds from Thai Herbs: Powder and Extract
Nowadays, Thai herbs have been providing in many category of products for examples in food and beverage, cosmetics, and drugs.
Due to customers take care more in their own health and safety, it causes all herbal products are concerned.
Extraction methods for both powder and extract forms of active compounds are presented in this article.
Hence, introduction of active compounds, postharvest technique, herbal processing, and extraction methods are mentioned and given some examples in each extraction technique.
All of the information can be useful to be a simple guide how to make herbal extracts.
The Development Model of Energy Manager’s Potential in Industrial Plants
The aim of this research is to study the factors that are essential for energy managers and to scrutinize the crucial factors contributing to their success.
A development model was developed regarding the energy manager’s potential and a handbook was created that would assist with the development of energy managers in industrial plants.
The Delphi method was used on a sample of 21 experts, and the research instruments consisted of questionnaires and interviews, with statistical data analyzed utilizing frequency, percentage, median, and IQR (Interquartile Range).
The obtained results suggested the format for the development of energy managers’ potential consisting of three core competencies, each consisting of various sub-competencies.
The three core competencies were knowledge, skills, and attributes.
Knowledge consisted of seven sub-competencies, skills consisted of six sub-competencies, and attributes consisted of seven sub-competencies.
Evaluations of the “Guidelines for the Development of the Potential of the Energy Manager” and the handbook “The development of the Potential of the Energy Manager in Industrial Plants” by thirteen specialists provided unanimous approval of their applicable use.
Prediction of Future Surface Temperature at Local Scale in Chiang Mai Province Under Climate Change Scenarios
The climate change problem results in several changes including the temperature.
There have been many studies on the future climate forecast but only providing the future surface temperature of countrywide area or at the regional scale.
In fact, the surface temperature of a local area might be lower or higher than that.
This raises the question on how the future surface temperature at local scale can be predicted.
This study applies the available data on Thailand’s existing climate change forecast using an existing world climate model ECHAM4 together with the remote sensing to predict the future surface temperature at the local scale.
The 3 districts in Chiang Mai, i.e. Muang Chiang Mai, San Sai, and Doi Saket were used as a pilot study for this research.
The results provided the annual maximum surface temperature during 2560BE and 2592BE of 30×30 meter grid spacing.
The 3 sets of local temperature include ECHAM4 A2, ECHAM4 B2, and ECHAM5 A1B projects with different conditions and sources of projecting.
In addition, there is a significant difference the temperature among each local data and in each year around 20 deg Celsius.
Therefore, it can be seen that only the local temperature forecast is very important for planning on specific areas, e.g. annual cropping, cattle, etc.
rather than using the average temperature of large provincial area.
It was also found that the future climate change of the 3 districts tends to be higher.
Moreover, the future local surface temperature from the ECHAM5 A1B project tends to be higher than those of ECHAM4 A2 and ECHAM4 B2.
As a consequence, it is important to choose the suitable model of climate change scenarios in order to find the best guideline to solve the problem on the climate change in certain local area.
Extraction of Active Compounds from Thai Herbs: Steam Distillation and Solvent Extraction
Recently, distillation and solvent extraction are widely used in herbal extraction.
Distillation process is based on of phase change of both active compounds and water, whereas the solvent extraction process is based on solubility principle as like dissolves like concept.
Hence, three techniques of distillation, water distillation, water and steam distillation, and direct steam distillation are briefly provided in details, including an innovation process as instant controlled pressure drop (DIC).
Various techniques of solvent extraction such as infusion, percolation, soxhlet extraction, maceration, enfleurage, supercritical fluid extraction, Microwave Assisted Extraction (MAE), and Ultrasound Assisted Extraction (UAE) are briefly described, including pros and cons.
Moreover, factors of solvent selection and solvent polarity are also commented.
Hopefully, these information from this article will be useful in your herb of interest.
Antibacterial Membrane from Mixed Poly (vinylidene fluoride) Nanofiber and Poly (vinyl alcohol) Nanofiber
Antibacterial Poly (vinylidene fluoride) (PVDF) nanofibers can be used to produce filter with the property of liquid filtering and bacteriostatic effect.
However, its present efficiency is still dissatisfied due to the low absorption of PVDF causing the limitation of antibacterial substances diffusion.
In this study, the researcher introduced hydrophilic membrane by spinning with Poly (vinyl alcohol) nanofiber (PVA) to produce FA filter.
The contact angle of FA filter has been reduced from 126 deg to 78 deg with the water absorption duration only of 1 minute and 20 seconds.
The FA 8M antibacterial filter has the thickness of 60±3 micrometers, a pore size of 0.40 micrometer, and the porosity of 70±3%.
The FA 8M antibacterial filter was compared with the commercial nitrocellulose membrane filter with the thickness of 125 micrometers and a pore size of 0.45 micrometers showing that the FA 8M antibacterial filter can effectively separate the bacteria from the water and still contain bacteriostatic effect though AgNO3 and BKC (Benzalkonium Chloride) added only 0.1% of the polymer weight.
Synthesis of Silver Nanoparticles in Skim Natural Rubber for Dye-sensitized Solar Cell
This research focuses on synthesis of silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) in the skim natural rubber latex and study the doping pattern of AgNPs onto mesoporous nanocrystalline layers of TiO2 to improve the efficiency of Dye-Sensitized Solar Cell (DSSC).
By the surface plasmon resonance effect of silver nanoparticles, the photocurrent of DSSC test devices can be increased.
The result shows that the ratio of AgNPs to ethanol and the doping pattern in TiO2 film significantly affect the photocurrent density.
DSSC test devices employing the ratio of AgNPs to ethanol 1 : 500 and the AgNPs doped between three layers of TiO2 film yield the best photoconversion efficiency of 4.3%, increased by 58.9% in comparison with those without AgNPs doping.
Experimental Study on Drying Conditions of Solar Fish Dryer with Temperature Controlled by Open-closed Ventilating System
This research aims to conduct an experimental study on the solar fish dryer with temperature controlled by open-closed ventilating system.
In the experiment, three cases of the study were examined by the different drying conditions The first case including the air velocity of 2.5 m/s and the ventilating area of 480 cm2 were applied to dry the fish until the moisture content below 70% dry basis.
The second case was conducted for 2 days.
The air velocity of 5.5 m/s and the ventilating area of 480 cm2 were applied to test in first day of the drying time while on the second day, the air velocity of 2.5 m/s and the ventilating area of 480 cm2 were set as the drying condition.
For the third case, the drying condition was similar to that of the second case except the ventilating area of 4,800 cm2 was applied in the first day of the drying time.
From the experimental results, it can be seen that the third case can provide the faster drying rate than the fish drying the direct sun dry system in the first three hours drying time because the ventilating area plays a significant effect on the drying rate.
In other words, at the same velocity, the area of 4,800 cm2 can make the higher drying rate than the ventilating area of 480 cm2 when the dryer with the larger area has a drying rate range of 0.18-0.56 g water/ g dry matter h, thermal efficiency of drying system of 32.18% and specific energy consumption of 2,087.72 Wh/kg.
Therefore, in the first day of drying time, the dryer with larger ventilating area providing the lower drying temperature can operate with a higher drying rate than the dryer with smaller ventilating area.
The Particleboard Manufacturing from Agricultural Waste
Thailand is an important agricultural country in the world.
There is a lot of agricultural waste but a little is used efficiently.
Most of it is often dumped or destroyed by burning.
The burning of agricultural residues causes carbon dioxide in the atmosphere as a greenhouse gas, which leads to global warming, the environmental problem of the world today.
One approach to reduce agricultural residues and add value to them is to produce a wood-substitute composite like particleboards.
Particleboard is a product developed to replace natural wood by mixing agricultural waste containing wood or fiber such as rice straw, rice husk, bagasse, corncob, etc.
with adhesives, waterproof adhesives or other materials.
It is then hot pressed and tested to determine physical and mechanical properties according to the industrial standard.
Hot compression makes particleboard a good quality.
Other factors are considered: temperature compression, types and shape of wood, moisture level and distribution of moisture to particleboard, heat transfer between sheets during compression, compression time, suitable compression and hardening before or after gluing of the adhesives.
Particleboard can be used as furniture or in interior architecture.
With knowledge and technology, the particleboard manufactured from agricultural waste can raise the quality of life as an innovative product for commercial utilization.
A Technique of Heat Pipe Filling with the Refrigerants Vapor Compression Method
This study focuses on heat pipe filling with the saturated vapor of refrigerants, aiming to investigate the appropriate point of the saturated vapor volume and cooling temperatures.
The test pipe is made of straight copper tube with a 40-mL capacity.
The experiments were conducted with four types of refrigerants i.e. R22, R-134a, R32 and R404A.
The volume of saturated vapor for testing was 50, 100, 150, 200, and 300 mL and the cooling water temperature for condensation was set at 0, 5, 10, 15, 20, and 25°C respectively.
The saturated vapor compression system was carried out using the hydraulic press machine, allowing the saturated vapor of refrigerants to condense in the test pipe.
The experimental result shows that the compression technique was useful for heat pipe filling as it decreases the loss of refrigerants in the entire filling process.
The average uncertainty of mass filling was 3% when cooling water temperature lies between 0 to 5°C.
Extraction and Characterization of Residual Oil from Spent Bleaching Earth
Spent Bleaching Earth (SBE) is an industrial waste of edible vegetable oil production generated from bleaching process of crude oil.
As spent bleaching earth contains between 20–40% oil by weight, its disposal by landfill or incineration may cause the dangers of fire and pollution.
In addition, the combustion of residual oil in spent bleaching earth leads to the emission of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere.
Extraction of residual oil from spent bleaching earth before disposal thus becomes a promising approach and issue of interest to eliminate these problems.
From previous research, solvent extraction is the most popular method for extraction of the residual oil.
This paper therefore reviews factors that affect the extraction efficiency and properties of extracted oil.
The information contained in this review would serve as a guideline with the greatest capacity for the mentioned procedure.
Optimal Factor Settings for Nonwoven Carpet Processes by Using Sequential Experiment and Analyze Variability
This research aims to determine optimal factor settings for nonwoven carpet processes, which are seat back, floor carpet, and headliner processes.
The optimal settings are determined in order to control the width of seat back and floor carpet and the weight of headliner within customer acceptable ranges.
A sequential experiment and analyze variability are conducted to determine the optimal settings.
The results show that the optimal settings obtain the width of seat back and floor carpet of 175.65 cm and 192.41 cm with the minimum standard deviation of 0.252 cm and 0.044 cm, and also obtain the weight of headliner of 190.57 gsm with the minimum standard deviation of 0.881 gsm.
The obtained width and weight are within the acceptable ranges with the lowest standard deviation value.
Optimization of Surface Cleaning Process for Flexible Printed Circuit Substrates Using Plasma
Flexible printed circuits are currently a key component of touch screen panels for mobile phones.
The parts need a strict quality control to prevent dust from covering the circuit surface.
Plasma cleaning of electronic circuits is an effective method to clean off small dust particles from the work surface.
However, the improper setup of plasma cleaning process can lead to the burnt surface as a result.
Hence, this research applies a technique of experimental design to determine an optimal condition of plasma cleaning process for flexible printed circuit substrates.
Factors examined in the experiments were the amount of argon, power of radio frequency and speed of plasma cleaning.
A response variable was the contact angle of deionized liquid on the workpiece surface.
According to the experimental results, the optimal cleaning condition comprised of using 8 dm3/min argon gas, 140 W radio frequency and 35 mm/s cleaning speed.
By using this condition, the contact angle was in the range of 10 to 30 degrees, which caused no burning on the workpiece surface.
After applying such condition to a production line, the burning defect can be reduced from 24.8% to 3.21% of 3 million parts produced per month, which is equivalent to the reducing of 744,000 to 96,300 defectives found monthly.
Feasibility of Electric Bus Implementation for Long-distance Public Transportation
This study purposes to delve into electric bus feasibility for long-distance transport services.
The investigation was conducted through collecting specific information, surveying and gathering opinions from those involved in promoting the wider use of electric vehicles for provincial public transportation.
The economic optimum analysis in the investment was explored through comparisons of three inter-provincial transit routes: Bangkok–Pattaya, Bangkok–Hua Hin and Bangkok–Nakhon Ratchasima.
The study results are as follows: First, the government has a measure relevant to promoting Thailand as an Asian hub for electric automobile manufacturing, putting efforts to foster domestic use as well as vehicle production by Thai entrepreneurs.
This measure supports investment, research and experimental development carried out under the project.
Second, regarding the implementation and putting transit electric buses into service operations, restrictions can typically be found in distance limitations coupled with a low limit of battery storage and charging capacity.
Third, current charging systems encompass in-depot, fast charging and battery replacement solutions.
Fourth, operators seem to be interested in the future deployment of electric buses; nevertheless, ongoing concerns fall in the issues of cost-effectiveness, bus capacity, maintenance and the amount of recharging time at each stop.
Finally, preferences of electric buses in public transport can reduce reliance on imported petroleum and help eliminate pollutant emissions in combustion processes.
Still, it is not deemed the most economically efficient means when compared to their gasoline- and diesel-powered counterparts, given the oil price set at 23.50 baht and electricity price around 5 baht per kWh.
Policy support measures can be determined into 3 major phases.
Phase 1 (B.E. 2560–2561) features the readiness of the infrastructure needed for electric vehicles in service as to support efficient interprovincial transportation.
Phase 2 (B.E. 2562–2564) outlines activities and development of technology, legislation, funding opportunities along with personnel competencies.
The final phase (B.E. 2565–2579) stresses on the widespread electric vehicle adoption for further facilitating long-distance travel.
Chromatic Numbers of Welded Graphs
The purposes of this research are
1) to find upper and lower bounds of the chromatic numbers of welded graphs in terms of the chromatic numbers of their original graphs, and
2) to find conditions which make the chromatic numbers of welded graphs in terms of the chromatic numbers of their original graphs.
The results are as follows: for any welded graph, the sum of the chromatic numbers of their original graphs is the upper bound of the chromatic number of the welded graph, and the maximum of the chromatic numbers of their orginal graphs is the lower bound of the chromatic number of the welded graph.
Moreover, the condition for complete original graphs and the condition for complete patches are obtained, which make the chromatic numbers of welded graphs in terms of the chromatic numbers of their original graphs.
Should You Consider Buying Life Insurance?
Should You Consider Buying Life Insurance?
By Dr. Napat Jatusripitak
In a world where there are already so many insurance products, you might wonder why you should care about life insurance.
Because every time we think about a new insurance product, endless questions would ensue.
Do I need life insurance if I already have health insurance?
Ultimately, who should consider life insurance?
The short answer is everybody who has dependents.
From my article “The Big Picture: Life Insurance Explained,” we buy life insurance to protect our loved ones in the event that something were to happen to us.
This means that how much we need life insurance depends on where we are in life.
Typically, our need is low when we are young (we are the dependents) but high as soon as we start a family (we expect to have dependents).
This need then decline as we age into the golden years.
Keep in mind that the level of need also varies with the type of household and the amount of money to maintain the lifestyle of our designated beneficiary.
A household in which only one person earns income to support not only the spouse but also the children and the grandparents would have a much greater need than a household with two working partners without a child or an elderly.
Now what if you’ve got enough savings to self-insure your entire family?
Would it still make sense to consider life insurance?
Believe it or not, international surveys find that the rich still purchase life insurance policies for two main reasons.
First, the benefit paid to your beneficiary may be income tax-free in some countries.
Second, life insurance benefits offer superior liquidity compared to other assets such as land.
Your designated beneficiary won't have to worry about splitting and selling the illiquid assets among the siblings in a difficult time to maintain the same lifestyle.
Not all of these scenarios will fit your needs exactly.
Everyone is different!
But I hope that this article gets you thinking about how life insurance can fit into your financial planning.
Recommend Products
iProtect S
Show the one you love that you truly care with a gift of financial security
Setting up your in heritance today with iProtect S to pass on financial security from generation to generation
Benefits
Coverage up to 31 times of your premium from the first day of your premium payment.*
Build your millions baht inheritance with only 2,859 baht/month of premium.*
Only 10 years of premium payment for protection up to age 85.
product Read More
product Read More
PR60
PR60 Insurance for Retirement
Enjoy your savings when retire Meet all your needs for retirement
Benefits
Guaranteed increasing cash payment 0.1% of sum assured will be paid starting from the end of policy year
2. 0.1% of sum assured will be added each year until it reaches 1% (year 11), and 1% will be paid annually thereafter (until age 59).
Guaranteed payment at retirement A lump sum payment will be paid when you reach age 60 as a gift for your retirement
Dividend* Potential higher return with dividend paid at maturity (age 60), it can be up to 18%* of sum assured
2016 Annual Report
Krungthai-AXA Life Insurance PCL (KTAXA) is pleased to inform our shareholders regarding the Company’s performance of 2016
The performance in 2016 received the total premium Bt55.8 billion, with first year premiums received of Bt14.9 billion.
The Bancassurance contributed Annualised New Business Premiums of Bt6.4 billion, Agency generated Bt6.1 billion and Corporate Solutions delivered Bt227 million.
In 2017, KTAXA will continue our focus and commitment towards being a “Customer Centric” organisation with thevision to “Empower People to Live a better Life”.
We plan to devote further resources towards “Customer Centricity” by improving customer segmentation and campaign management ultimately leading to improved customers’ satisfaction and increased profitability.
In addition, we launched four new core values including “Customer First”, “Courage”, “Integrity” and “ONE Heart” which KTAXA believe will create a culture driven by innovation, inclusion and trust at KTAXA.
Moreover, KTAXA will continue to remain competitive and best-in-class by being proactive to anticipate its customers’ needs through its Transformation and Agile methodologies.
This strategy enable by simplifying our working processes, and modernisation of our technology capabilities.
It also leverages digital practices as key enablers of this cultural change, and change our way of working.
The objectives are to give our employees better tools and work environment, including quicker feedback loops from our distributors and customers.
On behalf of the Board of Directors, I would like to thank you customers, shareholders, its employees, the executives and employees for the support and trust in KTAXA for the past years.
KTAXA will strive to develop the life insurance industry under the ethics and good governance principle together with the investment in the human and social environment as well as in the wealth of communities to stand beside our customers and Thailand in the forthcoming years.
Mr. Sirote Swasdipanich
Chairman of Krungthai-AXA Life Insurance Public Company Limited
For more details : 2016 Annual Report
(Not so) Secrets into teaching your kids on how to save money
Desktop Landscape Portrait Mobile
How good would it be if you kids grew up to know the value of money, and developing good spending habits?
Nowadays, cost of living, and the basic necessities are much more expensive than they used to be.
The expenses of looking after your kids, your family and buying all the basic necessities cost a lot of money.
Therefore, in order to reduce the costs of living, you should start by teaching your kids the value of money and that saving is the best solution.
But how do you teach your kids to know the value of money?
Here are the 5 tips:
1. Save before spend.
This is the first and easiest rule.
You have to set aside some money before spending, this way, you will know how much money you have left to spend, after saving.
For example, you are given 100 baht per day, you save 20 baht and the rest is for spending.
For those who have a spending goal, like a pair of shoes that cost 1,000 baht, if you receive 200 baht per week, saving 25 baht per week, you will be able to afford that pair of shoes within a year.
By saving and waiting, this will teach your kids the value money and also will teach them a good spending habit.
2. Only buying the necessities.
As a parent, you have to remember that buying everything they ask for will develop the extravagant spending habits that your kids will carry into the future.
Therefore, before buying them something, ask them how much they need it, how well they are going to look after it – not throwing them away after 2-3 days, this will also create a bad habit.
We suggest that parents can buy these gifts for them as a reward for when they’ve done something good and rewarding like getting good grades at school.
This will make your kids feel proud, and they will have the motivation to do good deeds.
3. Don’t buy something just because there’s a free gift.
As a parent, you have to teach your kids to only thinking about the big picture, like buying an actual thing, because some people buy things just because it comes with the free gift, and throw away the goods they bought.
You should train your kids to think that these are wasteful spending habits and that they should save up money to buy bigger things.
4. Make list of incomes and expenses
Teach your kids to do list of their incomes and expenses so that they know what sort of things they spent their money on, like food, snacks, toys or even gaming.
When they do not have enough money to spend, they will know where most of their money has gone to and see if that can be reduced in order to pay for the necessities.
Instead of giving them more money, teach your kids to manage their money well.
5. Open a savings account.
The last secret in saving money, is the most serious one yet, as it is opening a savings account for your kids.
This method will be the most sensible choice as you will earn interest when depositing money, similar to the endowment insurance.
If you are saving money consistently, no matter how urgent it gets, you will always have money for an emergency in the future.
No matter which method you choose to save money, if you are consistent, and have discipline then you will reach your saving goal and will always have money when you’re in need.
Reference: http://www.rakluke.com/article/24/128/4030/8
Financial Consultants
As a worldwide leading organisation
in financial protection and wealth management, we are committed to developing a rewarding career path for our financial consultants by offering comprehensive support along with an attractive compensation scheme.
Our financial consultants exercise the AXA core attitudes in every step of their service.
They give customers the best financial advice by understanding their needs and recommending sound solutions for them.
Interest to become our agent
Call.
02-030-9256
K. Naowarat Yisarakun
With the best career, best compensation and best support to build a professional distributor with Available, Reliable, and Attentive attitudes for their customers
Interest to become our Financial Service Executive
Call.
02-030-9281, 08-1170-0792
With more than 1,000 branches of KTB nationwide, our Financial Service Executive plays an important role to support and provide the best solutions of life & health insurance with financial planning that meet customers needs.
Krungthai-AXA Life Academy
"We believe education and training make things different."
Krungthai-AXA Life Academy is specially-established to serve as a learning centre to equip our sales people with the know-how as well as develop sales managers.
It also helps support and develop all distribution channels, including Agency Distribution, Bank Assurace Distribution and Corporate Solution Distribution.
All training programmes are conducted by multi-skilled trainers with proactive training methods.
Krungthai-AXA Life Academy has five locations nationwide, including Bangkok (Phayathai), Khon Kaen, Chiang Mai, Hatyai, Surath Thani, and Pattaya.
With an effort to become an integrated learning organisation.
Krungthai-AXA Life has deployed an e-learning technology that can be accessible anywhere at anytime.
AXA becomes global insurance partner of Liverpool Football Club
AXA has stepped up its commitment to redefining its relationship with customers as it joins forces with one of the most famous names in sport.
The multi-year partnership with English Premier League legends Liverpool Football Club (“Liverpool FC”) sees AXA become the club’s Official Global Insurance Partner.
In addition to providing excellent global brand visibility and raising AXA’s profile among sports fans around the world, the partnership is particularly good news for football supporters in Asia, as it includes a number of exclusive events that will take place in AXA’s core markets within the region.
These will include various mass participation events around the region, as well as unique opportunities to get closer to the team.
Building on their shared values, AXA and Liverpool FC will create innovative experiences for clients, partners and fans in Asia, as well as making meaningful contributions to the local communities in which they both operate.
Working closely with Liverpool FC’s players, manager, coaches and health professionals, AXA will also create unique and relevant content that will help support the shared goal of promoting a healthy lifestyle, delivering on the AXA brand purpose of empowering people to live a better life.
“I am delighted to announce this long-term partnership with Liverpool FC, which comes at a particularly exciting moment for AXA as the Best Global Brand ranking, announced by Interbrand today, recognized AXA as the #1 insurance brand for the 10th year in a row.
Like us, Liverpool are leaders in their field, renowned for their long and proud history, strong sense of community and relentless pursuit of excellence.
We therefore look forward towards achieving shared successes, both on and off the field, as we continue to ensure our customers will ‘never walk alone’”, said Thomas Buberl, Chief Executive Officer of AXA.
“Liverpool FC is one of the most illustrious names in the world of sport, with a huge and fiercely loyal following across Asia.
Not only will this partnership create new opportunities for our customers, agents, employees and members of our local communities to interact with players from both the men’s and women’s teams, but it will also allow us to leverage the expertise of Liverpool FC’s world-class professional health experts and academy coaches to provide unique, money-can’t buy experiences”, added Gordon Watson, CEO of AXA in Asia.
“We are very happy to welcome such a prestigious and ambitious brand to our football family as our newest global partner and our Official Insurance Partner.
We would like to extend our congratulations to AXA on being the number one insurance brand in the world for the 10th year running.
With this award, AXA has continuously proven its dedication to service excellence and strives to be a true partner for life for its customers.
As a world-leader in its industry, AXA shares our ambitions and values, which will provide the foundations for a special long-term relationship.
Together we’ll work towards bringing to life really special experiences for our fans around the world”, said Billy Hogan, Managing Director and Chief Commercial Officer, Liverpool FC.
“If your heart is fit, then your life will be firmed…Secrets to looking after your heart with a passion”
Health Disability Desktop Health Disability Landscape Health Disability Portrait Health Disability Mobile
“Heart Disease” just hearing of it makes a lot of people in fear because it is known that a heart disease can happen to anyone, no matter age or gender, even those who exercise regularly can have a heart disease.
The statistics from the Thai Health Organisation shows that “Heart Diseases” like Coronary heart disease, Ischaemic heart disease, Cardiomegaly and Cardiac arrhythmias have already killed 6 Thais per hour.
Therefore it is important to look after yourself to stay far from the heart diseases.
Heart disease can be prevented by avoiding these following habits, especially for those who has these 4 conditions, which are Diabetes, high blood pressure, hyperlipidemia and those who are overweight.
- Avoid processed foods, or instant foods that contains salt, sugar and fat.
- Instead of having snacks/dessert during the day or after each meal, change to fruits.
- Avoid any drinks or fruit juices with high level of sugar.
If you’re thirsty, we suggest you drink water.
- If alcohol is unavoidable, consume at an appropriate amount.
- Avoid smoking, for the health of your own heart and those around you.
Heart disease can also be prevented by regularly moving your body and trying to be vigorous.
You should exercise at least 30 minutes at a time, 5 times a week.
For those who doesn’t have time to exercise - house chores, walking up and down the stairs instead of using the lift or using mobile application to count your steps can be the substitute of exercising.
Most importantly, you should check yourself regularly, if you come across any abnormal symptoms, it could be a sign that you have a heart disease.
Symptoms like being tired, chest pain, and if those symptoms doesn’t get better after resting and you are still feeling nauseous and dyspnea then you should immediately see a doctor to examine the cause of these symptoms.
Another way to ensure that you’re in good hands and well looked after is to choose the right health insurance, the ones that protects you from the moment you find out that you have a heart disease, and will stay with you throughout the whole treatment processes.
Krungthai-AXA, iHealthy, the health insurance that will protect you and look after you with all your needs, anywhere and anytime.
For more information, click
Recommend Products
iHealthy
iHealthy Worldwide Healthcare that meets all your needs
Benefits
Provide lump-sum coverage for in-patient treatments of up to maximum Bt100 million per year
Live a worry-free life from critical illness with Coverage for Radiotherapy, chemotherapy and Kidney dialysis
Welcome Mommy to-be with coverage for pregnancy, childbirth, pre and post natal complications and newborn accommodation
6 Reasons to “let go of" the unimportant people in your life
6 Reasons to “let go of" the unimportant people in your life.
By Kamonchanok Parnjai
This could be anyone; an old lover, a gossiping friend or anyone negative around you.
At first, relationships with these people may be fun and sweet.
Love is blind and sometimes people only show you their good side.
But in the long run, you start learning and begin to know what’s real and what's fake.
Sometimes, keeping the wrong people in your life may be dangerous for you and have negative effects on your mindset.
Let go of those who are not important in your life.
1.Let go if your goals are not the same.
When you have lived and grown up to a certain point, you realize that you need something different.
People change and may have different goals over time.
Maybe it’s the job, the environment, life itself or different experiences.
When people stop understanding each other, communication fails and they have trouble being be together.
2.Let go if only dishonesty and distrust are left.
Sometimes you can no longer trust someone anymore because they make the same mistakes repeatedly.
You hear the same apologies and promises to improve on several occasions.
Trust and honesty are the foundation of any relationship, friend or lover.
If you can’t trust somebody anymore, it’s time to let go.
3.Let go of people who make you feel bad or hurt your feelings.
If a friend or lover makes you unhappy or sad, it's time to say goodbye to them.
If they make you feel bad in front of others or compete with you all the time, it's time to remove them from your life.
Respect yourself and move on as soon as possible.
4.Let go if you feel alone.
If you have to do everything alone and the other person doesn’t appreciate your efforts, it's time to let them go.
Stick with people who see your value.
5.Let go if you don’t feel supported.
Let go of people who don’t support you.
If someone is always telling you, “Are you sure you can do this?
I think you are unlikely to succeed.
Then be around people who are ready to support you and who try to help you to achieve your dreams, people who push you and believe in you.
Maybe they believe in you more than you believe in yourself.
6.Let go if you have a different taste.
You can’t tolerate each other’s music and you hate each other’s favorite movies.
When traveling together, you don’t like each other’s activities.
If you can’t stand each other, let go.
If you can’t accept each other the way you are, it's time to walk away.
In many romantic relationships or friendships, people come from different extremes and manage to be happily together for some time.
But sometimes differences are not great, especially if you can’t accept those differences.
If you can’t adapt, it's time to walk away.
, Dare to cut them out of your life and let them go.
Krungthai-AXA Life has created the “Krungthai-AXA Care Khun Kwa Krai’’ program
which is a medical assistance service that Krungthai-AXA offers to its valuable customers who are diagnosed and/or have the following conditions of Orthopedics and Spine, Chronic Diseases and Cancer.
Other conditions will be included in the future, but you can register your interest to join the program now.
Fill out your information to use the service
Krungthai-AXA Care Khun Kwa Krai
Is a medical partner and consultation service for customers undergoing certain active conditions.
Our medical team will offer helpful and appropriate care/treatment options such as linking customers to recommended specialists; guiding customers based on their medical needs; ensuring consistency and continuity in the customers’ care; suggesting appropriate alternative treatment/service that matches with customers’ benefits so that our customers can return to their healthy lifestyle as soon as possible.
Objectives
Customers receive appropriate health information, services and treatment options that match each customer’s condition and benefits.
Customers receive appropriate treatment and care so they can quickly return to their everyday activities.
Customers will gain knowledge and understand how to care for themselves so they can prevent future illnesses.
Customers receive faster services from our provider network.
Complete the form to receive promotion
Name-Surname *
Mobile Phone *
Policy Number or ID Card Number
Example: 505-XXXXXXX or 357XXXXXXXXXX
Email
Submit
Submitting
Thank you
We have received your information.
Our representative will contact you back at the given number for insurance confirmation.
Fail to submit information
Try again
Krungthai-AXA Care Khun Kwa Krai
Is a medical partner and consultation service for customers undergoing certain active conditions.
Our medical team will offer helpful and appropriate care/treatment options such as linking customers to recommended specialists; guiding customers based on their medical needs; ensuring consistency and continuity in the customers’ care; suggesting appropriate alternative treatment/service that matches with customers’ benefits so that our customers can return to their healthy lifestyle as soon as possible.
Objectives
Customers receive appropriate health information, services and treatment options that match each customer’s condition and benefits.
Customers receive appropriate treatment and care so they can quickly return to their everyday activities.
Customers will gain knowledge and understand how to care for themselves so they can prevent future illnesses.
Customers receive faster services from our provider network.
Example of hospitals participating in our program
Conditions of Participation
- Krungthai-AXA Health policy holder with an “Active” status
- Krungthai-AXA Health policy holder who is diagnosed and/or have condition of Orthopedics and Spine
Chronic Diseases i.e. Poor control Hypertension, Poor control Diabetes, Thyroid
Cancer (Breast, Nasopharynx, Prostate, Uterus, Cervix)
Remark:
- We are initially targeting customers who are diagnosed and/or have condition of Orthopedics and Spine, Chronic Diseases (Poor control Diabetes, Poor control Hypertension), Cancer (Breast, Nasopharynx, Prostate, Uterus, Cervix)
- Traditional Second Medical Opinion is not included in this program.
- All customers are subjected to be evaluated by Krungthai-AXA Care Khun Kwa Krai’s team whether they can join the program and the company reserves the right of final decision.
- Krungthai-AXA Care Khun Kwa Krai’s operating Hour: Monday – Friday from 08:30 – 17:00.
- The Company reserves the right to change these terms and conditions at any time without prior notice.
- This is not part of the claim query department or call center.
For Claim questions, please contact 1159 press 2 directly.
Get an online quote and free consultation today!
A simple way to get a quote and speak to our experts in just a few minutes
See all products Get a Quote
Product Recommendation
Health & Disability | iHealthy
The new definition of Critical Illness insurance that covers up to 100 critical illnesses from early to intermediate to severe stages
Read more
Income Protection | iProtect S
Show the one you love that you truly care with a gift of financial security Setting up your in heritance today with iProtect S to pass on financial security from generation to generation
Read more
Short-Term Saving | iGen
Tax planning with a short-term guaranteed level premium life insurance.
Total guaranteed benefits at policy maturity date 198%
Details and knowledge about premium insurance that you should know
Health Disability Desktop Health Disability Landscape Health Disability Portrait Health Disability Mobile
Saving money is very important, and it is a matter that needs extra care and attention.
But we often find uncontrolled problems that come into play, causing our wallets to not be able to hold on to our money.
Even though we often manage our money carefully but the thing that makes us loose our savings without avoiding is our health.
We cannot plan when we are going to get sick, “The uncertainty about our health is the certain thing that can happen to us at any time”
Even though today many Thais are starting to care more about their health, which can be seen through the trends and popularity of working out.
Whether, it would be going to the fitness, running marathons, triathlons, and cycling.
It is a very admirable thing to take care of your health and keep strong, which helps prevent sickness and diseases.
Although, we take good care of ourselves it doesn’t mean that we can’t get sick.
Because other than our bodies, there are many other factors that can lead to us getting sick.
If we’re unlucky and get sick, Health Insurance may be a very important thing for us because;
1.Having great health isn’t a “guarantee” that we would not get seriously ill or having to spend a night at the hospital.
Although the chances are slim, but if we get unlucky, the damages and loss that could happen are devastating.
2.The quality and treatment procedure in a private hospital is better than a public hospital.
But it comes with a higher price that looks to be increasing every year.
If we have no health insurance we might have to bear with the very expensive hospital fees, which might affect the stability of our savings and the financial goals that we have set.
3.There are many risky factors out of our control in our everyday lives that might lead to “serious diseases” such as cancer, heart diseases, and strokes.
Once it happens our health will deteriorate along with loosing massive amounts of money in treatments.
That’s why life insurance is critical to reduce the risk of the above.
4.Even though we stay strong and healthy but chances of an “accident” is something we cannot foresee.
Sometimes it might not be us but others who are careless which may lead to us having to be admitted in the hospital in case of serious accidents just like serious diseases
5.If we need to be treated and admitted in the hospital for a lengthy period of time, we will lack income while having to pay for hospital fees.
Having compensation income from health insurance can help a lot.
As you can see, having a strong and healthy body can only “reduce” the chances of getting sick but it may not “erase” the risk of sickness and the damages that come with it.
If you want to save money with ease and you don’t want any interruptions in your financial plans, having insurance can be an interesting choice for reducing these risks.
Health insurance is not only for the weak and unhealthy people that has a higher chance of being hospitalized, if you want to learn more about health insurance and serious diseases insurance you can click on the following link https://www.krungthai-axa.co.th/th/health-and-disability
Because in truth, applying for health insurance and also serious disease insurance are not for it to occur frequently.
So if an unexpected illness hit us, we can be confident and positive that it will not affect the stability in our lives especially crucial matters like our finances.
Recommend Products
iCare
The new definition of Critical Illness insurance
that covers up to 100 critical illnesses from early to intermediate to severe stages, allows multiple claims of up to 6 times sum assured, and assures that your policy will remain in effect even when diagnosed with a critical illness.
Benefits
Coverage of up to 100 illnesses from early to severe stages
Multiple claim benefit of up to 5 times sum assured
Additional 10 juvenile illnesses (total of 6 times sum assured for children aged 1 month - 18 years old)
product Read More
product Read More
iHealthy
iHealthy Worldwide Healthcare that meets all your needs
Benefits
Provide lump-sum coverage for in-patient treatments of up to maximum Bt100 million per year
Live a worry-free life from critical illness with Coverage for Radiotherapy, chemotherapy and Kidney dialysis
Welcome Mommy to-be with coverage for pregnancy, childbirth, pre and post natal complications and newborn accommodation
Common Health Problems Among the Elderly
Changes in physical and mental health are obvious among older adults.
Our body wears out or degenerates as we get older.
Old people are more sensitive to the mental issues; they become very easily upset, moody and anxious.
Our body organs typically begin to degenerate at age 30 onwards.
Therefore, maintaining good health at a young age will help reduce the risk for health problems when you get older.
Older adults experience a great deal of digestive system disorders due to loss of teeth and less saliva produced, resulting in difficulty swallowing and digesting.
Besides, our bodies naturally start to produce fewer digestive enzymes as we get older and this leads to poor digestion and can contribute to other problems such as bloating and degeneration of liver and pancreas.
Moreover, constipation can occur when they move less or get less exercise.
In older persons, emotional and mental changes are the result of having too much free time after retirement.
Retired adults feel lonely, depressed and less valued.
When these feelings combine with illness or physical problems they are likely to get moody, angry, irritable, resentful, and angry very easily, and they tend to face many health issues at the same time.
The most common health problems, both physical and mental, among older adults include:
1. Obesity
2. Diabetes
3. Ischemic heart disease
4. Hypertension
5. Hypercholesterolemia
6. Osteoarthritis
7. Digestive problems such as bloating and constipation
8. Eye problems such as glaucoma cataract
9. Dementia and Alzheimer's disease
10. Anxiety, insomnia and obesity are more common in the elderly, which may lead to other diseases and conditions.
Anxiety, insomnia and obesity are more common in the elderly, which may lead to other diseases and conditions.
Malnutrition is another important thing that cannot be ignored.
Seniors are particularly vulnerable to malnutrition due to degeneration of the body, especially digestive system and nutrient absorption.
Changes in lifestyle such as less social gatherings are also causes of depression in the elderly.
Loss of appetite is also a common issue for seniors as their ability to taste and smell becomes impaired when they grow older.
"Malnutrition in the elderly The most common symptoms of poor nutritional status and malnutrition in the elderly include an extremely low body weight which is the result of less efficient gastrointestinal tract and digestive system and deficiency of vitamins, minerals and protein due to inadequate food intake.
Seniors often have low levels of important vitamins, especially vitamin C because of low intakes of fruit and vegetables.
Anemia is also a common problem in elderly individuals which is caused by iron deficiency.
Another major problem in older people is osteoporosis caused by inadequate intakes of calcium, protein, vitamin D and vitamin C.
The right diet and adequate intake are especially important for older people in order to prevent the risk of malnutrition and obesity."
Regular exercise, adequate sleep, regular health check-up, family and friend gatherings, new activities and hobbies are important in promoting the physical and mental health of older adults.
It is projected that there will be an increasing number of citizens aged 60-65 who stay healthy, both physically and mentally.
Key to overcome nutritional and eating problems for seniors is healthy diet that supplies all the nutrients our bodies need.
Weight control is also necessary to help prevent chances of developing illness and diseases related to obesity.
Credit : http://www.108health.com/108health/topic_detail.php?mtopic_id=302&sub_id=6&ref_main_id=2#ixzz2FkwYNP7k
Recommend Products
iHealthy
iHealthy Worldwide Healthcare that meets all your needs
Benefits
Provide lump-sum coverage for in-patient treatments of up to maximum Bt100 million per year
Live a worry-free life from critical illness with Coverage for Radiotherapy, chemotherapy and Kidney dialysis
Welcome Mommy to-be with coverage for pregnancy, childbirth, pre and post natal complications and newborn accommodation
product Read More
product Read More
iCare
The new definition of Critical Illness insurance
that covers up to 100 critical illnesses from early to intermediate to severe stages, allows multiple claims of up to 6 times sum assured, and assures that your policy will remain in effect even when diagnosed with a critical illness.
Benefits
Coverage of up to 100 illnesses from early to severe stages
Multiple claim benefit of up to 5 times sum assured
Additional 10 juvenile illnesses (total of 6 times sum assured for children aged 1 month - 18 years old)
5 Ways to keep away from Critical Diseases
Digital 4.0 era is the time where everyone is overworked, always in a rush, and everything is a competition.
This makes everyone stress and paranoid, which can then lead to them having critical diseases.
Bad eating habits, like consuming junk food is also the cause of critical diseases.
These are the 5 critical diseases that we should know about.
1. Cancer.
Cancer is the disease that took away the lives of 90% of the people who has it.
If the cancer is found early, it might be curable, but if found too late then it is less likely that it can be cured.
Cancer can be found in everyone, all genders and ages.
Liver cancer is usually found in men, and breast cancer is a common type of cancer found in women.
Cancer is caused by the abnormal cells in the body, and those cells grow very quickly until it becomes impossible to cure.
Those cells then spread throughout the body, which then makes all the normal cells fail to function properly.
2. Heart disease.
Some people are born with the heart disease but some develop the disease later on.
The heart disease that was developed later on can be caused by many factors, some are from the familiar diseases like high blood pressure and high cholesterol level.
Another disease that may seem unimaginable is a rheumatic heart disease, which is caused by the rheumatic fever.
Rheumatic fever is caused by an infection from a type of bacteria, which cause the inflammation in the throat.
If the inflammation continues without any treatment, it could affect various organs such as joints, brain, skin and especially the heart, because it could lead to having the valvular heart disease permanently.
If you’re someone who doesn’t really look after your health, then you have a higher risk of having the heart disease than someone who looks after their health well.
So now, are we ready to exercise?
3. Myasthenia Gravis.
Myasthenia Gravis is not a disease that you can detect immediately, there are many symptoms that are similar to a lot of diseases.
However, if your eyelids are starting to fall, having difficultly chewing or having trouble talking, we suggest you see a doctor immediately.
4. Stroke.
Stroke can be caused by 2 factors, one is by blood clots and the other is from high blood pressure.
5. Acute Asthma Attack.
A lot of us have to carry an inhaler especially for the Acute Asthma Attack.
The inhaler is used when you are suffering from asthma, or Airway Obstruction, each person could experience different symptoms.
The key to reducing asthmatic symptoms are to avoid contact with dusts, animal furs and pollen.
All of the critical diseases mentioned above can happen on its own or it can be caused by our actions.
So, what are the health knowledge that we should know in order to stay away from these diseases.
There are many ways to keep healthy and away from the critical diseases.
Here are some simple tips that you can easily do to keep you healthy:
- Drink enough water, the amount should be suitable for your body.
Drinking water can reduce the risk of cancer, especially bladder cancer and colon cancer.
Also, drinking enough water can also wash out the cancer cells in the body.
- Eating healthy food such as green fruits and vegetables will prevent abnormalities in cell division, which is the cause of cancer.
- Exercise regularly, just around 30 – 35 minutes daily, will improve the immune system and stabilize the hormonal balance in the body.
- You should not consume more than 2,400 mg of salty food per day because It could be harmful to the stomach lining and could lead to the kidney disease.
- Do not neglect the pain symptoms you are getting, if you are getting repeated pains in the same spots, you should see a doctor as it could be a warning from your body for critical diseases.
We would like to suggest another way to keep you away from the critical diseases, apart from what we mentioned in this article, is to buy the critical diseases insurance.
This is because critical diseases are sometimes unexpected, by the time we find out, it’s too late to prevent it.
However, insurance cover many diseases and the insurance premium can also be used for tax deductions.
Critical diseases are uncontrollable, but your ‘happiness’ can be protected.
Start looking after your health today for a better health in the future.
Fore more information, click
Recommend Products
iShield
iShield Extend the good times, with continuous critical illness cover.
An alternative to help protect you and your family’s happiness from critical illness.
Plan now, do not let critical illness devastate your life.
Benefits
Short premium payment period and level premium to support longer happier times
70 Critical illness covered by iShield, both early stage and major stage critical illness
Basic policy premium is tax deductible (Subject to revenue department announcement)
product Read More
product Read More
iHealthy
iHealthy Worldwide Healthcare that meets all your needs
Benefits
Provide lump-sum coverage for in-patient treatments of up to maximum Bt100 million per year
Live a worry-free life from critical illness with Coverage for Radiotherapy, chemotherapy and Kidney dialysis
Welcome Mommy to-be with coverage for pregnancy, childbirth, pre and post natal complications and newborn accommodation
product Read More
product Read More
iCare
The new definition of Critical Illness insurance
that covers up to 100 critical illnesses from early to intermediate to severe stages, allows multiple claims of up to 6 times sum assured, and assures that your policy will remain in effect even when diagnosed with a critical illness.
Benefits
Coverage of up to 100 illnesses from early to severe stages
Multiple claim benefit of up to 5 times sum assured
Additional 10 juvenile illnesses (total of 6 times sum assured for children aged 1 month - 18 years old)
10 Things you should do before you’re 40!
Have you ever thought of what it would be like when you’re 40?
What would you be doing?
How much money would you have in your savings account?
Who have the answers to all these questions?
If you are in your 30s and still don’t have an answer to any of those questions, it’s time to start thinking and answering those questions.
Today, we have 10 suggestions of what to do before you turn 40! Let’s see which one you can relate to!
1. Choose the right job and the job you like.
By working for the right job brings you joy, but what about the job that’s right for you?
And what’s the right job for you?
The right job for you is the job that can provide for you and your family, or in other word, a stable job.
If you’re happy with the job you’re doing but it doesn’t give you enough income for you to be able to survive on your own then that’s not the right job for you.
2. The earlier you start saving, the quicker you’re to being rich.
Life after retirement is, at the moment, unimaginable for a lot of us.
However, one thing we know for sure is that you should start saving up now that you’re still healthy and has the energy to work.
You might not be rich in the end but at least you will still have some saving and money to use in the future.
3. Find your life goal
This one is very important, if you’re nearly 30 and still do not have any life goal then this means that you have been living without any plans.
You don’t know what success is.
Therefore, for those who’s still lost, start searching for your future/life goal now.
We can guarantee that your life will lead to the road of success.
4. Buy a house before a car
A secret trick for those who’s unsure of which to buy first, a house, or a car?
They say that in the future, housing price will increase and car pricing will decrease.
If you don’t have any of these 2, we suggest that you buy a house first because the interest on the house is higher and if you can finish paying it off first then you will be free of debt.
5. You should have more than 1 job
One person definitely has more than 1 talent.
We believe that nothing is certain and there are always changes.
If you’re a salaryman who works at the office, you should find an extra job, but don’t let that extra job interfere with your main job.
6. Take every opportunity that life has to offer
Every opportunity comes with different experiences.
It does not matter if you succeed or not, what matters is that you’ve tried doing it.
If you look back, you might learn a thing or two and are able to use that towards your life goal.
7. Travel
You should start travelling now that you’re still young because you’re still fit and healthy.
Once you’re older, or after 40 years old, things might be more difficult.
8. Establishing yourself
Usually comes from all the savings.
You should start thinking about how much money you should have in your saving after you’re 40, what’s your retirement plan.
You should start establishing yourself as soon as possible by searching for your life goal.
9. Invest
When you’re thinking about saving, just saving money is not enough anymore for people around the age of 30.
You should start thinking of investing.
So, for the person the age of 30, then what should you be investing on?
We suggest that you should study on stock, land, endowment insurance or other properties.
If you cannot afford them yet, you should study it first and when you’re ready, you can start investing.
10. Health is important
When you’re nearly 40, the risk of getting sick is higher than when you’re younger.
Therefore, having a health insurance is something that should not be overlooked.
It’s ok if you do not have a large amount of saving, you can still find more but what’s important is that you have to look after you health.
All mentioned above are just some tips from us.
What we want you to do is to find the answer of your life goal, once that’s been answered, the rest will follow.
Lastly, “Life goal, Saving and Establishing yourself” whoever can achieve these things first will have a more stable life.
However, don’t forget to be happy, always, before or after 40.
Reference : www.chonburipost.com/20-???-??????????????????
Recommend Products
LifePlus+ Saver
First step of working life
Benefits
In case of an unexpected event, receive total premium paid plus 100% of sum assured
Plan your savings with two coverage plans options
From 4th year onward, receive cash payout as a reward
product Read More
product Read More
iWealthy
Saving for success in wealth management: To increase financial value and Protect your family’s wealth for many generations to come
Benefits
Easy to invest with regular premium
Flexible investment and protection ratio
Greater benefit with Loyalty Bonus after the 6th policy year
Krungthai-AXA Life aims to empower people to live a better life
Krungthai-AXA Life aims to empower people to live a better life
Krungthai-AXA Life Insurance Public Company Limited’s total premium Bt 55.8 billion, with first year premiums received of Bt 14.9 billion.
The total invested assets were Bt192.7 billion with the investment portfolio mix remaining relatively stable with 6% equities, 85% bonds, 4% property funds, 1% short-term deposits, and 4% others, with investment returns being in line with KTAXA’s expectations despite the low interest rate environment and challenging year.
David Korunic, Chief Executive Officer of Krungthai-AXA Life Insurance Public Company Limited (KTAXA) said, “In 2017, we will continue our focus and commitment towards being a customer centric organisation with the vision to empower people to live a better life.
We plan to devote further resources towards ‘Customer Centricity’ by improving customer segmentation and campaign management ultimately leading to improved customers’ satisfaction and increased profitability.
In addition, we launched four new core values including “Customer First”, “Courage”, “Integrity” and “ONE Heart” which we believe will create a culture driven by innovation, inclusion and trust at KTAXA.
Meanwhile, we will continue to keep our strategic focus on the Protection & Health business, and expand and develop our investment products.
Furthermore, we have gradually transformed and developed the existing operations and communications processes into the digital ecosystem.
We believe that technology innovation and advancements are driving all aspects of the business, not only the product division”.
KTAXA will continue to remain competitive and best-in-class by being proactive to anticipate its customers’ needs through its Transformation and Agile methodologies.
KTAXA believes that the quality of its employees is key to its success and a source of competitive advantage.
Khun Prettaya Sutchasila was thereby appointed to the newly created role of “Chief Customer Officer – CCO” earlier in 2017 and her main focus will be to create a seamless customer management process and in addition, be responsible to manage three key areas including Customer Experience, Digital Experience, and Brand & Communications.
Khun Prettaya Sutchasila remains a key member of the Executive Committee.
Poramasiri Manolamai, Chief Distribution Officer said “In 2016, bancassurance contributed Annualised New Business Premiums of Bt6.4 billion, Agency generated Bt6.1 billion and Corporate Solutions delivered Bt227 million.
Last year, we have also started to sell some products through the online channel which are simple and easy to understandbyall our customers.
These products consisted of iGen, iFine and iProtect S.
This year, we plan to launch a wide-range of Health, Protection and Investment products that are designed specific to customers’ needs.
In January, we introduced a new health product called “iHealthy” and recently launched “iInvest”; the new Unit-Linked product that provides customers with long-term investment insurance that promotes wealth accumulation while also providing health protection coverage.
KTAXA also recognises the opportunities in the ‘inclusive and diversity’ market and therefore plans to launch a new product for this niche market later this year”.
In distribution, people development is key to success and reflecting KTAXA’s commitment to people development, the company has recently rearranged some of its senior distribution team members, in line with their long term professional career development.
• Dr Uqkrit Sridaromont was appointed to the role of “Chief Agency Officer – CAO”.
He has a strong agency experience and background and has worked closely across all distribution channels for almost 9 years with KTAXA as its Chief Distribution Training Officer.
• Khun Pornsak Suwannatup was appointed to the role of “Chief Distribution Training Officer – CDTO”.
He has, during the course of his career, acquired a deep understanding of the sales teams and will contribute his experience and knowledge in developing KTAXA’s distribution teams to the utmost level.
Currently KTAXA’s Academy has 5 academies across Thailand and plans to announce its expansion plans later this year tothe lower northern area in Phitsanulok province.
There are more than 70 trainers providing real career development opportunities and professional courses which are in line with the company’s strategic positioning in people development.
The company not only provides its distributors with the necessary key skills and expertise, but alsohas equipped them with advanced digital tools including iPro, iSocial and iConnect, which enable them to achieve an increased level of professionalism thereby resulting in higher customer satisfaction.
Prettaya Sutchasila, Chief Customer Officer said “I would like to share some examples of the company’s achievements in 2016.
One of our very proud moments during the year was when the AXA Group received global recognition as the #1 Global Insurance Brandfor the 8th consecutive year and the top 3 global financial services brands by Interbrands.
The Net Promoter Score (NPS) indicated KTAXA as the most preferred brand amongst competitors in Thailand.
Towards the end of the year we were ranked by the AXA Group as the #1 company in terms of corporate responsibility in Asia and the 2ndon a global scale.
AXA’s corporate responsibility index is measured using an internal version of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, an extra-financial assessment based on the assumption that managing risks deriving from economic, environmental, and social developments creates long term value for the company and society.
These achievements promote KTAXA’s brand by highlighting our commitment toinvesting significantly in the human and social environment as well as in the wealth of communities, with an impact both on the society and the bottom line of KTAXA.”
David Korunic added “In December 2016, the company was awarded the Global Award for Management Practices in the Employment of People with Disability1,recognised as one of the top 25 companies worldwide in leading the diversity conversation2, and also awarded as the ‘Best Life Insurance Company in Thailand’3.
These accolades acknowledge and recognise our commitment to business excellence across every aspect of the business and encourages us to grow and develop the company as we celebrate our 20th anniversary in Thailand.
I have no doubt that 2017 will be another challenging year, not only for us but for all businesses.
That said, I am still confident in the growth opportunities in the insurance industry in Thailand.”
Exercise for the Elderly
In this article, I recommended that the elderly should have a regular aerobic exercise session such as walking at least 3 times per week.
The duration of the exercise should begin with 10-15 minutes at first, then gradually increase the duration until it reaches approximately 30-45 minutes.
The suggested intensity level of exercise is at the level at which you can say in a short sentence while performing the activity.
Here, I will talk about which group of elderly can exercise and the exercise precautions.
To exercise or not to exercise?
1. Avoid exercising if they are suffering from the following diseases – acute myocardial infarction (heart attack), acute cardiac arrhythmia (irregular heartbeat), acute heart failure, pulmonary disease, liver disease, acute or severe kidney disease, phlebitis, injury involving bone and muscle, hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia.
2. The elderly who do not have the above diseases, other underlying diseases, and other abnormal symptoms can exercise at a moderate level with a very low risk of side effects.
3. The elderly who do not have the above conditions but who have underlying diseases (such as hypertension, diabetes) or other abnormal symptoms are recommended to take light level of exercise with caution.
They should consult a doctor before proceeding to the next level.
Exercise precautions for the elderly:
1. The elderly who have never exercised before should start off with light exercise.
By observing the heart rate and breathing, they can gradually increase the intensity level of their exercise.
2. A warm up session is also recommended to get ready before exercising because it promotes blood flow to the muscles, increases the body temperature and prevents muscle and joint injury because the muscle elasticity of the elderly is 3 – 4 times less than that of adolescents.
3. A cool down phase is when the body’s systems, the circulatory system in particular, return to their normal state.
A cool down phase is important because there is an increase of blood flow to arms and legs of 4 – 5 times the normal rate during exercise.
When ending an exercise period too abruptly, blood pressure drops and the blood supply in the brain decreases, resulting in dizziness.
These effects may induce the symptom of angina or chest pain in the elderly that have a coronary artery disease.
4. An above average heart rate, sleep disorder, muscle fatigue are the signals telling that the elderly are over-exercising.
5. Do not take a shower immediately after exercising.
Allow your body temperature to cool down for 5 – 10 minutes and do not use excessively hot water.
6. Avoid exercises which instruct you to hold your breath because it could increase your blood pressure.
7. Avoid participating in any competition because the excitement can trigger the autonomic nervous system and lead to an irregular heartbeat.
8. Do not exercise when feeling feverish or unwell.
If the elderly temporarily stop the exercise and want to resume, do not start exercising too vigorously at the beginning.
Reduce the intensity level then gradually increase the challenge.
9. Wear appropriate clothing and footwear to prevent an accident while exercising.
10. Set up an appropriate exercise environment, for example, in a spacious area with good air conditioning.
The next article will discuss on how to encourage the elderly to exercise regularly, which will be the final part of this series.
Please stay tuned!
SINTIP PATTANAKUHAR
Rehabilitation Physician
Rajavej Chiangmai Hospital
Recommend Products
iCare
The new definition of Critical Illness insurance
that covers up to 100 critical illnesses from early to intermediate to severe stages, allows multiple claims of up to 6 times sum assured, and assures that your policy will remain in effect even when diagnosed with a critical illness.
Benefits
Coverage of up to 100 illnesses from early to severe stages
Multiple claim benefit of up to 5 times sum assured
Additional 10 juvenile illnesses (total of 6 times sum assured for children aged 1 month - 18 years old)
product Read More
product Read More
iHealthy
iHealthy Worldwide Healthcare that meets all your needs
Benefits
Provide lump-sum coverage for in-patient treatments of up to maximum Bt100 million per year
Live a worry-free life from critical illness with Coverage for Radiotherapy, chemotherapy and Kidney dialysis
Welcome Mommy to-be with coverage for pregnancy, childbirth, pre and post natal complications and newborn accommodation
Krungthai-AXA Life Insurance Public Company Limited,
established from a solid co-investment partnership between Krungthai Bank PCL.
and the AXA Group, global financial protection and asset-management specialists.
Our Company
Krungthai-AXA Life Insurance Public Company Limited with the ambition to be preferred company.
Read More
Corporate Responsibility
Corporate Responsibility (CR) at Krungthai-AXA Life
Read More
Join us
We have a vision with empowered people who are focused on customer service and champions of operational excellence.
Easy saving plan for salary earners
According to the research of Citigroup report that in next 10 years, the number of bankers will be decreased around 30% because of internet.
Nobody needs to queue at bank anymore
Wall Street analysts, one of the high income occupations may feel unsecure in their jobs because of the computer capability that will be able to access and run the report in a few minutes.
Advantages of the technology are to help you work easier until the company might not need to use "you" at all in the end.
However, what will the salary earners do if tomorrow there will be no more jobs?
It should not be good to solve this classic trouble once it happened.
Many textbooks taught you to make a plan.
We believe that many salary men are still undecided and do not know how to start up properly.
Today we have the answer.
How to save / invest
1. Deposits with banks
Choose either saving account or fixed deposit account.
Advantage
• Deposit - withdrawal on demand.
• High liquidity
• Minimal risk
Disadvantage
• Low returns (interest) up to moderate rate.
2. Stock Trading
Potential growth benefit more than the bank but high risk investment
Advantage
• Accessibility, anytime of day and night trading
• High risk with big return
Disadvantage
• Risky venture
• Follow up stock market closely
3. Buying Life Insurance
Saving money for future unexpected situation.
Advantage
• Tax deductible
• High return
• Risk cover life and family
Disadvantage
• Long term investment may be needed.
4. Buying LTF / RMF
Long-term investment and getting tax deductible
Advantage
• Tax deductible
• Relatively good returns
• Low risk
Disadvantage
• Long-term investment is necessary.
5. Buying Mutual Funds
As the policy, there is a fund manager who takes care
Advantage
• Risk Reduction
• Take care by professional broker
• Relatively good returns
Disadvantage
• Fluctuation interest
6. Real Estate Investment
Property investment for future speculation that depends on locations
Advantage
• Relatively good returns
• Future speculation
Disadvantage
• Lack of Liquidity
• Huge investment
No one knows what the future will be.
Somehow the preparation for every step of your life is not difficult and can be manageable.
The habit of saving money requires discipline and a clear plan.
Let you try to save and invest on your own.
For better future, we know the reason to work harder today.
Wish all salary earners come across your life crisis beautifully.
Recommend Products
iGen
Tax Planning with a short-term Guaranteed Level Premium Insurance
Benefits
Easy to apply • Line Pay • Krungthai-Axa website • Rabbit Finance Website Premium starting from 85 baht/day
Short-Term Saving 10 years protection for 6 years premium
Tax Deduction Enjoy the benefits from saving and tax deduction
product Read More
product Read More
iWealthy
Saving for success in wealth management: To increase financial value and Protect your family’s wealth for many generations to come
Benefits
Easy to invest with regular premium
Flexible investment and protection ratio
Greater benefit with Loyalty Bonus after the 6th policy year
Krungthai-AXA Life, the Green Insurer – Turning the Tide on Plastic
Krungthai-AXA Life, the Green Insurer – Turning the Tide on Plastic
'Know You Can' protect our ocean life by reducing plastic
Did you know that on average, Thai people use eight plastic bags each per day, which equates to almost 200 billion bags per year! Sadly, the most affected is our sea life including whales and turtles that are often found stranded on Thai beaches with plastic clogged in their insides and hampering their mobility.
At KTAXA we take environmental protection very seriously as it is our mission to protect both our customers and the communities where we work.
As part of our annual climate change mitigation program, we continue to invest resources into recycling and reducing plastic.
Furthermore, in 2009 Krungthai-AXA Life made a significant decision to change its customer plastic policy folders to fabric folders which produced from Thai villagers.
From this project we can reduce using plastic 50,000 sqm.
per year for over 10 years.
At a global level, AXA is encouraging companies that we invest in to change their behavior by supporting the “Plastic Solutions Investor Alliance”, a coalition of investors who collectively engage consumer goods companies on the threat posed by plastic waste and pollution.
We are hoping our customers and friends will join us in this worthwhile campaign to help make this country a better place to live and empower people to live a better life.
Understandably it would be challenging as an individual to influence the mal practices of major industries, but it is very possible to change our own behavior and actions in the following practical ways:
1. Bring your own bag when going shopping.
2. Stop buying bottled water.
Keep a refillable bottle handy.
3. Bring your own Cup or Thermos to the coffee shop.
4. Buy laundry detergent in boxes, not liquid plastic containers.
5. Say no to straws.
6. Don’t use ziplock bags, use aluminum foil instead.
7. Skip the disposable razor.
8. Change from disposable to cloth diapers.
9. Buy bar soap, not liquid body wash.
10. Compost your trash, reduce your use of plastic trash bags.
Remember protecting our environment is everyone’s responsibility and it’s vital to 'Know you can' make a real difference by making some of these small lifestyle changes.
Saving our planet now greatly impacts on future generations including our children and grand-children.
For them to have quality of life and an easy task in maintaining and managing the environment, significant steps and measures have to be undertaken today.
So the next time you are in a convenient store, think before you take that plastic bag or straw, and consider how your decision will help save not only our aquatic life but also ultimately preserve this wonderful planet.
How much tax do I pay for this income?
How much tax do I pay for this income?
Generally, an individual who has an income has to submit the Personal Income tax form once a year, If you start earning your income this year, then you have to submit the form by 31st March of the year after.
However, if the form is submitted online, the deadline of submission might be extended.
Tax is calculated by annual income – expenses – allowances and deductions = net income.
The net income will then be calculated into tax rates, depending on the scale of your net income, which is the rate that individual taxpayer will have to pay per year.
For example, this rate is from 2017
Net income per year (baht)
500,001 – 750,000, Tax rates is 15%
750,000 – 1,000,000, Tax rates is 20%
1,000,001 – 2,000,000, Tax rates is 25%
2,000,001 – 5,000,000, Tax rates is 30%
5,000,001 and above, Tax rates is 35%
From the rate above, it is clear that the higher your net income is, the more tax you would have to pay.
However, when calculating taxes, you can use different expenses for to reduce the amount of tax you have to pay, for example, self-care allowance, family allowances, Insurance premium, savings, investments, donations, Mortgage interests etc.
The expenses from all the allowances and deductions are usually the expenses that everyone pays.
However, for those who would like to have a long-term life plan or long-term financial plan then life insurance or health insurance is something to consider.
This is because, not only you can use the insurance premium for tax deduction, but you will be covered by the insurance from all the risks and also benefit from the insurance policy, which is the main reason for the long-term financial plan and the stability of yourself and your family.
You can choose to pay for the insurance premium within the specific amount and period indicated by the Revenue Department for premiums deducted each year.
This will also be beneficial to you because you can choose the plan that matches your needs in all aspects including life and health, for example Life legacy – the plan that protects your life and income, which will allow you to deduct up to 100,000 baht* or iRetire – the plan which you can plan and live your retired life happily, which will also allow you to deduct your taxes up to 200,000 baht.
Moreover, if you want a good health insurance that will allow you to deduct up to 15,000 baht* then we (Krungthai-AXA) would like to recommend iHealthy – a health insurance that covers all medical expenses, anywhere, and anytime.
Another interesting insurance would be the iShield, this life insurance also covers all stages of all deadly disease up to 70 diseases as well as up to 100,000 baht tax deduction on the life insurance.*
However, for the year 2018, if taxpayer would like to use the insurance premium for tax deduction, the insurance company must be informed in order for the company to give the insurance premium information to the revenue department – so that the taxpayer do not have to submit extra documents for the tax deduction.
*All terms and conditions are subject to the discretion of the Revenue Department Thailand.
Recommend Products
iRetire
iRetire: Let your happiness continue in “Retirement”
Benefits
Options to start planning for your future after retirement • iRetire 1 : Single Premium Payment • iRetire 5 : 5-year-Premium payment
Up to 20% annuity of Sum assured (iRetire5)
Tax Deduction Benefits Up to 200,000 baht* (for annuity product)
product Read More
product Read More
iShield
iShield Extend the good times, with continuous critical illness cover.
An alternative to help protect you and your family’s happiness from critical illness.
Plan now, do not let critical illness devastate your life.
Benefits
Short premium payment period and level premium to support longer happier times
70 Critical illness covered by iShield, both early stage and major stage critical illness
Basic policy premium is tax deductible (Subject to revenue department announcement)
product Read More
product Read More
iHealthy
iHealthy Worldwide Healthcare that meets all your needs
Benefits
Provide lump-sum coverage for in-patient treatments of up to maximum Bt100 million per year
Live a worry-free life from critical illness with Coverage for Radiotherapy, chemotherapy and Kidney dialysis
Welcome Mommy to-be with coverage for pregnancy, childbirth, pre and post natal complications and newborn accommodation
You will look and feel younger if you follow these routines
You will look and feel younger if you follow these routines
By Kamonchanok Parnjai
Want to look younger and more beautiful?
You have to take care of yourself with discipline from morning until bed time.
If you follow these suggestions, I guarantee you will be more youthful from now.
1. Take good care of your teeth.
Beautiful and white teeth make you look younger right away, but more important is the mouth.
It is the first point of entry for food entering our bodies.
Recent research provides convincing evidence that oral health and overall health are inextricably linked that what’s good for our mouth is also good for the rest of the body we work so hard to keep fit and healthy.
This is the first step to maintain a youthful appearance.
2. Drink one glass of water every hour until sunset
Water washes away toxins?
from our bodies.
It replenishes all cells, especially collagen, and makes muscles stronger which makes you look younger.
Water stimulates the cardiovascular system.
I choose to drink one glass of water every hour until sunset.
If you follow this rule, you will get the full amount of water that your body needs.
Be careful, if you don’t drink enough water, your blood will thicken, reducing circulation.
3. Meditation 20-30 minutes per day.
Forget about meditating for periods of 5 to 10 days a year.
If you want to get the full benefits from meditation, you have to meditate every day, 20-30 minutes per day.
My experience has taught me what research has proven, meditation can refresh the body for a full 3 hours.
The more you practice in the morning and before sunset, the better.
4. Exercise 30 to 40 min.
30 to 40 min of exercise per day has anti-aging benefits and makes you years younger on a cellular level.
Exercise makes you more energetic and younger.
People who exercise are more confident and happier.
Exercise is the secret to treating virtually every disease, even senility.
Weight-lifting exercises will keep the body muscles toned.
5. Sleep early and sleep deep.
If we choose to sleep at the right time, in a dark and quiet room, free from noise and electrical devices, our bodies renew themselves at night.
Then you wake up more beautiful and feeling younger.
6. Stop consuming sugar
Stop consuming sugar, rice, rice noodles, noodles made from flour, alcohol, cake and other foods high in sugar.
All these make you look and feel older.
The sweeter, the older.
7. Reduce stress ASAP
When you feel stressed, just exercise or do some outdoor activity.
It is important to practice positive thinking and limit connect with people who bring negative thoughts with them.
Try adjusting your daily routine just the next 3 months, you will see the results obviously.
Recommend Products
iHealthy
iHealthy Worldwide Healthcare that meets all your needs
Benefits
Provide lump-sum coverage for in-patient treatments of up to maximum Bt100 million per year
Live a worry-free life from critical illness with Coverage for Radiotherapy, chemotherapy and Kidney dialysis
Welcome Mommy to-be with coverage for pregnancy, childbirth, pre and post natal complications and newborn accommodation
3 Financial goals that the working aged people cannot miss
Do you know what the scariest thing is when you start working?
Hard work?
(Probably not!)
Bad co-workers?
(No!)
Your boss?
(Maybe!) The answer is financial issues.
When we all started working and our income is able to make us provide for ourselves, we think about our expenses, responsibilities of our daily needs.
Or it might be little expenses here and there buying a gift for yourself to stimulate your declaration of freedom.
But wait!!
The first important step that shouldn’t be missed is “financial management”.
Think about it, even if you work longer gaining more experience and income, the horrible thing that comes with it is more expenses and payments.
Expenses that are growing faster than a weed like taking care of your family members especially your parents or your children and nieces.
Including endless health issues that come with age and etc.
Because life isn’t a joke, everyone must have a good foundation and plan set.
Things for working aged people like us need to plan is our finances.
The faster the better, because we can be prepared for problems that might surface in the future and deal with them with ease.
Now, many of you may wonder what the 3 steps that working aged people need to have planned is.
Today we will reveal 3 tips on how to managing your money for free!
Let's get to it.
1. Emergency Money: Before you invest your money or spend it, or try to expand things in your life.
Please ask yourself that, “If you get fired today where will you find more money to spend?”
“And in how many months can you land a new job?”
This is a question that reminds that us working aged people need to have “emergency savings” I recommend that you need at least 3-6 times more than your monthly salary.
For your own convenience even if you run into some trouble.
If you don’t have any emergency money saved, just think if you run into any trouble, how will you find more money?
If the answer is “making loans” I can tell you now, start saving that emergency money today because your life is about to run into problems without even knowing.
2. Retirement Money: Another financial matter that working aged people cannot forget to plan is retirement savings when we turn old.
I mean old people without work because no one can work to their graves.
(Because no one will hire you) That’s why we need to assure that we are well without any income in our retirement and that our retirement savings will help us have a good life.
Those who are single without any children to take care of them (or some that don’t take care of their parents) need to plan out their retirement savings as soon as possible.
The best time to save for retirement money is when you just started working.
The faster you start planning your retirement, the less you’ll have to save every month.
The benefits of reward and compound interest overtime can make you unbelievably wealthier.
3. Insurance: Many people would overlook the last step of the plan, which is making insurance to protect you from risks that could happen in life.
Nowadays there are many different types of insurance to choose.
The people who don’t have much to spend on insurance premium can choose a lengthily protection plan for savings and reduce tax.
It will assure us that the ones we leave behind after we die won’t suffer.
There are many insurance plans to choose from, choose wisely suitable to your situation.
Now you see, that working aged people like us need to give more importance to financial planning’s so you can be ready to deal with all aspects of life, because we will never know what’s going to happen in the future.
Before we part ways, I want to remind you that the 3 tips on financial planning are very important and everyone needs to know this.
After you learn it, the more important thing is to start applying it so that our lives can avoid failed goals and dreams just because you “forgot to plan”.
Recommend Products
iCare
The new definition of Critical Illness insurance
that covers up to 100 critical illnesses from early to intermediate to severe stages, allows multiple claims of up to 6 times sum assured, and assures that your policy will remain in effect even when diagnosed with a critical illness.
Benefits
Coverage of up to 100 illnesses from early to severe stages
Multiple claim benefit of up to 5 times sum assured
Additional 10 juvenile illnesses (total of 6 times sum assured for children aged 1 month - 18 years old)
product Read More
product Read More
iProtect
Because certainty can sometimes be uncertain
"iProtect" leaves a heritage that ensures the future of your "loved ones".
Benefits
Coverage of up to 120 times sum assured from the first day of your premium payment (depending on age and gender of the insured)
Minimum premium of hundreds per month (depending on age and gender of the insured)
Premium payment period from 5 years, or 10 years, or up to age 85
Top Products
Savings, Life and Income Protection Insurance | Krungthai-AXA
iHealthy
Worldwide Healthcare that meets all your needs
Read More
Provide lump-sum coverage for in-patient treatments of up to maximum Bt100 million per year
Live a worry-free life from critical illness with Coverage for Radiotherapy, chemotherapy and Kidney dialysis
Welcome Mommy to-be with coverage for pregnancy, childbirth, pre and post natal complications and newborn accommodation
LifePlus+ Saver
A savings plan for first-time workers who want to develop good savings habits while increasing life coverage to suit their lifestyle.
Read More
In case of an unexpected event, receive total premium paid plus 100% of sum assured
Plan your savings with two coverage plans options
From 4th year onward, Receive cash payout as a reward
iProtect
Because certainty can sometimes be uncertain "iProtect" leaves a heritage that ensures the future of your "loved ones".
Read More
Coverage of up to 120 times sum assured from the first day of your premium payment
Minimum premium of hundreds per month (depending on age and gender of the insured)
Premium payment period from 5 years, or 10 years, or up to age 85
Get an online quote and free consultation today!
A simple way to get a quote and speak to our experts in just a few minutes
See all products Get a Quote
MyAXA Life Mobile Application
With MyAXA Life, you have one-click access to all your Krungthai-AXA Life policies and their important dates.
Enjoy convenient services, securely and at any time.
Note: For customer who already have the application installed, please update to the latest version from the store for new features.
How to use MyAXA Life
Sign up
Login
Add your policy
Tax Certificate
Download or Update
Signing up MyAXA Life
Create your account for the first time
Sign up
Once you downloaded MyAXA Life mobile application,
tap on "Sign up"
Create your account
Sign up with your email
Create a password and confirm it
Check your email
Go to your email inbox
to verify your ownership of the email
Verify your email
Tap on "Verify your email" in the email
New MyAXA Life member
Tap on "Go back to login" to login
with your email and password
Step
Logging in MyAXA Life
Login to use MyAXA Life mobile application
Login
Input your email address
and password and tap "login"
Create 4-digit passcode
Create a 4-digit passcode
which improves security
in case you do not log out
Add fingerprint security
For devices that support fingerprints,
you can use your fingerprints
in replacement of the passcode
Step
Adding your policies
Add all your Krungthai-AXA Life policies to your account
Adding your policies
Tap on "Add your policy" to begin
Adding your policies
Enter your citizen identification number OR your policy number
(one of your policies number in case you have multiple policies)
and your date of birth.
Then tap on "Add your policy"
Verify with OTP
You will receive a one-time password on an SMS
Enter the OTP and tap "Confirm"
Step
Tax Certificate
Tax Certificate for Tax Deduction
Tax Certificate
Select the policy you want to download
the Tax Certificate
Download the document
Tap on the icon to download the document
Tax Certificate
The system will displays your Tax Certificate in the PDF
Step
Download or Update MyAXA Life application
For your iOS and Android devices
For your iOS phone
Search for “MyAXA Life” on App store
or click
For your Android phone
Search for “MyAXA Life” on Google play
or click
Step
Get an online quote and free consultation today!
A simple way to get a quote and speak to our experts in just a few minutes
See all products Get a Quote
Interesting Life insurance
Health & Disability | iHealthy
The new definition of Critical Illness insurance that covers up to 100 critical illnesses from early to intermediate to severe stages
Read more
Income Protection | iProtect S
Show the one you love that you truly care with a gift of financial security Setting up your in heritance today with iProtect S to pass on financial security from generation to generation
Read more
Short-Term Saving | iGen
Tax planning with a short-term guaranteed level premium life insurance.
Total guaranteed benefits at policy maturity date 198%
Thank you for giving Krungthai – AXA Life the opportunity to better serve you
Please click here to download your personal VDO
Based on your recent VDO experience, how satisfied are you ?
(5 stars=very satisfied)
Submit
Please kindly enter Insured's national ID and date of birth to help us verify your identity.
For Foreigner, please enter your passport ID
National ID / Passport ID *Please enter your national ID.
For Foreigner, please enter your passport ID
Example 1100800188904
Date/Month/Year *Please kindly enter your date of birth
Submit
The verification is complete
Thank you
You participated in this video
Krungthai - AXA will continue to develop the satisfaction
You have already taken this survey.
Authentication Fail
Please try again later
An error occurred
This VDO URL has already expired.
We will re-generate and send the VDO to your email or SMS
within 5 working days.
Thank you very much.
An error occurred
Please try again later
An error occurred
Please try again later
Sending...
Saving for Legacy | Krungthai-AXA
Throughout your working life, you have accumulated a certain wealth.
In case of an unexpected event, you need to protect this wealth so it can be passed on to your loved ones.
Krungthai-AXA Life is ready to be a part of your inheritance plan so you can safeguard and protect your fortune for your family’s future
iInvest
iInvest is the answer to successful wealth management by saving as it has been designed to increase your monetary value and preserve your wealth at the same time for you to pass an endless wealth to your children.
Read More
One time premium pay and investment can be increase any time after the first year
Bonus after 5 policy years (0.25% at the end of policy year 5 – 10 and 0.5% started at the end of policy year 11, the percentage calculated from average policy account in each year)
110% of onetime premium after withdrawals deduction (if any) for death benefit or 110% of policy account value whichever is greater
Life Legacy
If you are planning on leaving your inheritance to your family, this is the right option and solution for you
Read More
2 premium mode seletable until age 60 / until age 99
Low premium, Full coverage from day one
Benefits are exempted from inheritance tax
Get an online quote and free consultation today!
A simple way to get a quote and speak to our experts in just a few minutes
See all products Get a Quote
Product Recommendation
Health & Disability | iHealthy
The new definition of Critical Illness insurance that covers up to 100 critical illnesses from early to intermediate to severe stages
Read more
Income Protection | iProtect S
Show the one you love that you truly care with a gift of financial security Setting up your in heritance today with iProtect S to pass on financial security from generation to generation
Read more
Short-Term Saving | iGen
Tax planning with a short-term guaranteed level premium life insurance.
Total guaranteed benefits at policy maturity date 198%
Life, Accident and Critical Insurance | Krungthai-AXA
Krungthai-AXA Life Insurance’s  responsibility is to provide you with valued protection, coverage and a professional service.
We are committed to understanding your individual needs and providing insurance plans to suit your requirements at each of life’s stages.
With full coverage for life, accident and critical illness, we ensure that you and your loved ones can enjoy life with peace of mind.
LifePlus+ Saver
A savings plan for first-time workers who want to develop good savings habits while increasing life coverage to suit their lifestyle.
Read More
In case of an unexpected event, receive total premium paid plus 100% of sum assured
Plan your savings with two coverage plans options
From 4th year onward, Receive cash payout as a reward
iProtect
Because certainty can sometimes be uncertain "iProtect" leaves a heritage that ensures the future of your "loved ones".
Read More
Coverage of up to 120 times sum assured from the first day of your premium payment
Minimum premium of hundreds per month (depending on age and gender of the insured)
Premium payment period from 5 years, or 10 years, or up to age 85
iProtect S
Show the one you love that you truly care with a gift of financial security Setting up your in heritance today with iProtect S to pass on financial security from generation to generation
Read More
Coverage can be up to 31 times of your premium from the first day of your premium payment*
Build your millions baht inheritance from only 88 baht/day of premium*
Only 10 years of premium payment for protection up to age 85
iCare
The new definition of Critical Illness insurance that covers up to 100 critical illnesses from early to intermediate to severe stages, allows multiple claims of up to 6 times sum assured, and assures that your policy will remain in effect even when diagnosed with a critical illness.
Read More
Coverage of up to 100 illnesses from early to severe stage
Multiple claim benefit of up to 5 times sum assured
Additional 10 juvenile illnesses (total of 6 times of sum assured for children aged 1 month - 18 years old)
iShield
iShield Extend the good times, with continuous critical illness cover.
An alternative to help protect you and your family’s happiness from critical illness.
Plan now, do not let critical illness devastate your life.
Read More
Short premium payment period and level premium to support longer happier times
70 Critical illness covered by iShield, both early stage and major stage critical illness.
20 Early Stage Critical illnesses and50 Major Stage Critical illnesse
Basic policy premium is tax deductible (Subject to revenue department announcement)
Get an online quote and free consultation today!
A simple way to get a quote and speak to our experts in just a few minutes
See all products Get a Quote
Product Recommendation
Health & Disability | iHealthy
The new definition of Critical Illness insurance that covers up to 100 critical illnesses from early to intermediate to severe stages
Read more
Income Protection | iProtect S
Show the one you love that you truly care with a gift of financial security Setting up your in heritance today with iProtect S to pass on financial security from generation to generation
Read more
Short-Term Saving | iGen
Tax planning with a short-term guaranteed level premium life insurance.
Total guaranteed benefits at policy maturity date 198%
Saving for Retirement | Krungthai-AXA
Krungthai-AXA Life is committed to providing you a retirement plan with financial stability so that you can continue to fulfill your dreams after retirement.
Retirement giver the opportunity to finally do whatever you love.
Whether that involves a world trip or living with your beloved ones, we can help you achieve your dreams.
Our retirement plan will allow you to spend your golden years happily with your friends and family with a worry free.
iGen
Tax Planning with a Short-Term Guaranteed Level Premium Life Insurance
Read More
198% of sum insured value at policy maturity date
10 years protection for fixed rate 6 years premium payment
Tax Deduction : Enjoy the benefits from saving and tax deduction
iPlus
A cost-effective way to save with additional protection coverage
Read More
Easy planning for short-term saving 6 years of payment for 10 years of coverage
Total minimum benefit is 191% of sum assured
Additional benefits from policy dividends
iWealthy
Saving for success in wealth management: To increase financial value and Protect your family’s wealth for many generations to come
Read More
Easy to invest with regular premium; Investing regularly and continuously which provides greater investment protection
Flexible investment and protection ratio; Adjust your premium for investment and protection to get preferable return and protection
Greater benefit with Loyalty Bonus after the 6th policy year as 0.2% of past 12 months’ average redemption value, annually, Starting from the end of 6th policy year
PR60
Enjoy your savings when retire.
Meet all your needs for retirement
Read More
Guaranteed increasing cash payment.
0.1% of sum assured will be paid starting from the end of policy year 2. 0.1% of sum assured will be added each year until it reaches 1% (year 11), and 1% will be paid annually thereafter (until age 59)
Guaranteed payment at retirement.
A lump sum payment will be paid when you reach age 60 as a gift for your retirement
Dividend
iRetire
Let your happiness continue in “Retirement”
Read More
Options to start planning for your future after retirement: iRetire 1-Single Premium Payment, iRetire 5-5-year Premium payment
Up to 20% annuity of Sum assured (iRetire5), payable either monthly or annually to suit your needs
Tax Deduction Benefits Up to 200,000 baht*
Get an online quote and free consultation today!
A simple way to get a quote and speak to our experts in just a few minutes
See all products Get a Quote
Product Recommendation
Health & Disability | iHealthy
The new definition of Critical Illness insurance that covers up to 100 critical illnesses from early to intermediate to severe stages
Read more
Income Protection | iProtect S
Show the one you love that you truly care with a gift of financial security Setting up your in heritance today with iProtect S to pass on financial security from generation to generation
Read more
First step of working life | LifePlus+ Saver
Financial concerns usually increase as you grow older.
LifePlus+ Saver provide increasing life coverage until the end of the premium payment period
Krungthai-AXA Life opens new Academy and branch at Surat Thani province to support business expansion
Mr. Roger Deacon, Chief Distribution Officer of Krungthai-AXA Life Insurance revealed that the company has recently opened Krungthai-AXA Life Academy and branch at Surat Thani province to support business expansion in upper Southern area, to enhance and develop distributors for all channels as well as provide more convenience with the best quality of service to customers.
“Krungthai-AXA Life Academy is an essential part of company’s strategy under Thailand Agency Blueprint (TAB) value proposition that will build Krungthai-AXA Life distributors to be No.1 of Thailand Life Insurance which includes; best career, best compensation, and best support.
These regional academies will not only help building high quality sale force of our three distribution channels, agency, bancassurance and alternative distribution, but will also strengthen our commitment to all sale force that company will be a part of career building and fully support them.
Besides, opening new branch of Krungthai-AXA Life aims to provide easier access and more understanding to our customers in upper southern area include faster responding to our customer’s needs which align with our key strategy in Customer Centricity,” said Roger.
In term of performance as at August 2014, the record for new business premiums was at Bt 10,368m.
This successful performance reflects the effective and high quality of Krungthai-AXA Life Academy which builds all distribution channels deeply understand in core of insurance business easier and also the success of selling process thru “Customer Choice”.
Dr. Uqkrit Sridaromont, Chief Training Officer added that this year the company projects to increase the number of trainers to 100 trainers to manage the manpower growth nationwide as well as provide best support to enhance distributor’s knowledge and skills to succeed in their sustainable career and service to our customer.
Besides the objectives in development of distribution channels in upper Southern region and support the expansion of business in this area, the company aims that this Southern Academy will be the center of three major social and company’s contributions: career opportunity, recruitment, and training & development.
This regional academy will also help maximizing sale growth as well as increasing productivity to better quality sales and activity management.
This will enable Krungthai- AXA Life to become the preferred company of distributors to work with and customers to buy from high quality and professional distributors.
“ Krungthai-AXA Life focus more on intensive courses as to provide knowledge for many thousands of quality sale people and managers to make them become the professional insurer and sustainable growth in insurance business thru our professional trainers who expertise in knowledge and skills of life insurance business,” said Dr.Uqkrit.
Krungthai-AXA Life Academy is now ready in several regions of Thailand.
For Bangkok, you can visit Phaya Thai branch, Northeastern region at Khon Kaen, Southern region at Had Yai, Songkhla and Surat Thani, and Northern region at Chiang Mai.
For those who would like to become a part of Krungthai-AXA Life family and more information on products and services, please call 1159 or visit www.krungthai-axa.co.th
At Krungthai-AXA Life, we understand that you want to be secured in the face of uncertainty to take care of your loved ones at every stage of life
Krungthai-AXA Life works directly with you to understand your needs and provide the best solution as your life changes.
You will live a worry-free life and will always be ready for any unexpected events.
We offer the best solution to support your financial goals and turn your dreams into reality by providing a wide range of savings and investment plans and flexible options of retirement products
Let us be with you at every step of your journey- graduating from college, getting married, having a child, caring for parents, planning for retirement.
As your life changes, our solutions will change with you, thus, giving you the confidence you need to look after the ones you love
Life, Accident and Critical Insurance
Krungthai-AXA Life Insurance’s  responsibility is to provide you with valued protection, coverage and a professional service.
With full coverage for life, accident and critical illness, we ensure that you and your loved ones can enjoy life with peace of mind.
Read More
Health Insurance and Hospital Income
Our inclusive health plan will ensure that you and your family are safeguarded financially, if hospitalized.
The medical expenses will no longer be your concern.
An insurance plan to compensate the shortfall of your daily income during hospitalization is also available for you.
Read More
Saving for Retirement
Krungthai-AXA Life is committed to providing you a retirement plan with financial stability so that you can continue to fulfill your dreams after retirement.
Our retirement plan will allow you to spend your golden years happily with your friends and family with a worry free.
Read More
Saving for Legacy
Throughout your working life, you have accumulated a certain wealth.
In case of an unexpected event, you need to protect this wealth so it can be passed on to your loved ones.
Krungthai-AXA Life is ready to be a part of your inheritance plan so you can safeguard and protect your fortune for your family’s future
Read More
Get an online quote and free consultation today!
A simple way to get a quote and speak to our experts in just a few minutes
See all products Get a Quote
Product Recommendation
Health & Disability | iHealthy
The new definition of Critical Illness insurance that covers up to 100 critical illnesses from early to intermediate to severe stages
Read more
Income Protection | iProtect S
Show the one you love that you truly care with a gift of financial security Setting up your in heritance today with iProtect S to pass on financial security from generation to generation
Read more
Short-Term Saving | iGen
Tax planning with a short-term guaranteed level premium life insurance.
Total guaranteed benefits at policy maturity date 198%
Corporate Responsibility
Corporate Responsibility Desktop Corporate Responsibility Landscape Corporate Responsibility Portrait Corporate Responsibility Mobile
Corporate Responsibility (CR) at Krungthai-AXA Life
Suppliers
As a financial services company, many of our impacts on society are linked not to our own "production" processes, but to our choice of suppliers, from purchasing paper to contracting service providers for insurance claims.
In making these choices, we integrate social and environmental criteria in the selection and management of our suppliers.
Shareholders
Krungthai-AXA Life's responsibility towards our shareholders includes ensuring the long-term viability of the company through sound and transparent corporate governance and a culture of business ethics, supported by Krungthai-AXA Life's Standards and Code of Ethics.
Acknowledging the impact our business has on society at large, we also strive to integrate social and environmental issues into our governance, risk management processes, and investment strategy.
Customers
Krungthai-AXA Life promotes responsible customer relations through clear and transparent communication and marketing of our products, and by managing the claims processes responsibly.
We offer insurance, savings and investment products and services which also encourage and reward environmentally responsible behaviours, as well as help reduce social exclusion.
Community
As a responsible corporate citizen, Krungthai-AXA Life strives to play a positive role in society, by building a culture that promotes employee volunteering, and through corporate giving to support the communities in which we operate.
We are also committed to sharing our business expertise by helping to build better understanding of the risks faced by individuals and society at large.
Employees
Krungthai-AXA Life strives to be a responsible employer, placing employee engagement at the heart of its business strategy.
Achieving this means creating a workplace built on AXA's Values that fosters diversity and equal opportunities for all, promotes employee participation, encourages professional development, and supports
employee well-being.
Environment
Krungthai-AXA Life is committed to reducing its direct impact on the environment by actively managing our waste, emissions, and our consumption of natural resources.
We are also aware of the role we can play in promoting environmental awareness amongst our stakeholders, contributing to improve the understanding of global environmental risks, and committing to support the fight against climate change and other environmental
protection efforts.
We here at Krungthai-AXA Life Insurance know you value your and your family’s health more than anything else, that’s why we’re proud to offer you Life Insurance policies that match your exact needs, so that you can be free from worry when the unexpected happens.
We’re also determined to help you plan & achieve your financial goals with savings insurance policies that serve your short, medium, long-term and retirement goals.
Let Krungthai-AXA Life Insurance be with you for your proud graduation, wonderful marriage, happy children, and fulfilling retirement - with our range of policies to care for you and your loved ones’ every step, we’re here for life.
Individual
Because we wish to be a part of your health & financial success, we are proud to offer you Life Insurance policies that match your age, needs and your every goal whether it be retirement, health insurance and protection, savings and investment, or income protection - with personalised packages and coverage tailor made just for you.
Read More
Business
Krungthai-AXA Life provides Group Life and Health Insurance package to take care of your employees.
The package was exclusively designed for all types and sizes of organizations.
Employees can rest assured that they will be well treated and taken care of in every minute of their working life.
The better wellness programme is, the more efficient your employees are.
Read More
Get an online quote and free consultation today!
A simple way to get a quote and speak to our experts in just a few minutes
Understand your needs Get a Quote
Product Recommendation
Health & Disability | iHealthy
The new definition of Critical Illness insurance that covers up to 100 critical illnesses from early to intermediate to severe stages
Read more
Income Protection | iProtect S
Show the one you love that you truly care with a gift of financial security Setting up your in heritance today with iProtect S to pass on financial security from generation to generation
Read more
Short-Term Saving | iGen
Tax planning with a short-term guaranteed level premium life insurance.
Total guaranteed benefits at policy maturity date 198%
How to turn 10,000 income into 100,000 savings
Desktop Landscape Portrait Mobile
Young employers often have a difficulty to save money, especially salaried workers.
We have your own bills to pay such as electricity bills, rents and all other responsibilities.
Making ends meet is struggling enough, so a regular saving is almost impossible.
However, if you have a clear saving goal like buying a house, saving for family emergency, a retirement fund or even saving for a life insurance, then having 100,000+ savings is no longer a difficult task.
We have 3 easy tips on how to do it.
The first thing to do is to set a goal.
Let’s say 100,000 Baht.
Next is discipline.
This enables you to keep up your saving even you earn only 15,000 Baht a month.
Now here are the 3 tips:-
1. Deposit 9,000 baht every month.
This is the easiest way to practice discipline as you are simply putting money straight into your account.
By depositing a fixed amount each month, you are only allowed to withdraw after a certain amount of time and earn some interests.
If you deposit 9,000 monthly, for 12 months, you will earn 108,000 baht.
With average interest rate of 1.4% per year, you will earn additional 1,512 bath.
2. For those who do not want to deposit such a large amount in one go, you can collect at least 300 bath per day in a piggy bank.
This is another good way of saving money, but you still need discipline and consistency.
Keep doing that for a year then you will earn 100,000 bath or more.
3. Find a new, non-traditional way of saving because depositing a certain amount of money each month may not be enough, or the interest gained is not as high as you hoped for.
Another way of saving is to invest money into something else for example invest in a mutual fund, you will gain a lot of interest but the risk is also high, invest in endowment insurance, you will have someone to assist you with saving money and you can choose the duration of your saving.
This is another recommended way to save your money, because you have a professional looking after you, you can also use this type of insurance to reduce your taxable income.
All these 3 tips mentioned above are just a few recommendations that will guide you to your saving goal.
However, whether you succeed or not depends on your willpower and your determination to your goal.
If you are consistent, determined and have discipline in saving your money, the goal in saving 100,000+ is easily achievable.
*saving means saving in order to do life insurance
Reference:
https://www.gobear.com/th/fixed-deposit
https://money.kapook.com/view196325.html
https://www.1213.or.th/th/tools/programs/Pages/savings.aspx
Recommend Products
LifePlus+ Saver
First step of working life
Benefits
In case of an unexpected event, receive total premium paid plus 100% of sum assured
Plan your savings with two coverage plans options
From 4th year onward, receive cash payout as a reward
product Read More
product Read More
iGen
Tax Planning with a short-term Guaranteed Level Premium Insurance
Benefits
Easy to apply • Line Pay • Krungthai-Axa website • Rabbit Finance Website Premium starting from 85 baht/day
Short-Term Saving 10 years protection for 6 years premium
Tax Deduction Enjoy the benefits from saving and tax deduction
product Read More
product Read More
iWealthy
Saving for success in wealth management: To increase financial value and Protect your family’s wealth for many generations to come
Benefits
Easy to invest with regular premium
Flexible investment and protection ratio
Greater benefit with Loyalty Bonus after the 6th policy year
The thyroid gland is the largest endocrine gland of the body.
It is an organ that essentially produces hormone to support the body growth including metabolic system, the heart rhythm stimulating, and body temperature maintaining such as sweat secretion.
Moreover, the gland provides holistic protection to the body; for that reason when there is something seemed to be unusual occurs to it, for example, having the thyroid enlarged, such symptom could frantically disturbs the body system later.
What is Hyperthyroidism?
Hyperthyroidism or Overactive Thyroid is a condition occurs when the thyroid gland produces loaded hormones, leading to certain body responses such as rapid weight loss, abnormal heart rhythm, moody as well as other affected symptoms.
Thyroid disease can be divided into 2 types as follows:
Hyperthyroidism
This is a condition of thyroid disease consists of an excessive function and hormone level.
The body cell works rapidly considered as an abnormal sign.
It has a significant impact on the body which includes unusual weight loss, sweating, exhausted feeling, short time of menstruation, memory loss, restless, unstable concentration, hair loss, irregular heart rhythm, diarrhea, skin discoloration, hand trembling, weak arms or legs, exophthalmos, and enlarged thyroid gland
Hypothyroidism
This condition happens due to a decreased functional process of the thyroid gland.
Amount of its hormone in the bloodstream is extremely low.
As a result, the body cell’s function slowly processes causing several symptoms such as having rapid weight gain, sleepy feeling, hair loss, depression, cramp, constipation, cold feeling, sluggish heart rhythm, eye swelling, body swelling and thyroid gland enlargement.
Thyroid Self Screening
Look at a mirror stretch your neck upward, slowly turn left and right in order to detect and observe some abnormalities around the neck.
Slowly press both, the index finger and middle finger together on the side of your neck, starting the press on the back area before moving to the front, then press them again from the top part to the bottom.
The pressing should be made on both sides by the two fingers in one time.
When the lumps are found, try to massage around that area slowly.
Once found, go seeing a doctor as soon as possible in order to receive accurate screening and treatment.
Thyroid Disease Treatment
Medicine
Patients have to take a medicine in order to stop the body from producing thyroid hormone, thereby symptoms such as trembled pulsation, fatigue, and rapid weight loss can disappear.
Iodine-131
Taking iodine-131, an iodine radioactive substance is produced by Nuclear Reactor.
When it was kept for long, the substance would start to transform itself into iodine-128 slowly.
This process proved that there was a radioactive substance which should be released to destroy bad cells like dysfunctional thyroid gland.
For that reason, as soon as it is taken, the gland would be reshaped to become a smaller size than its first time.
Consequently, symptoms of the patients then would also be improved gradually.
Surgery
Surgery is a traditional treatment method that a doctor performs a surgical process to remove certain parts of the thyroid gland so that it can be smaller.
Hence, the thyroid gland would not be able to produce its hormone as much as before.
An approach can improve the symptoms affected by an organ quickly.
Surgical treatment is considered as an effective method due to short time providing in the procedure.
However, it is quite costly for that reason patients avoid having pain from this operation mostly.
Moreover, time spending at a hospital may not be wanted by most of them as well.
At the same in the middle of the process, there is also a risk of excessive thyroid hormone leaking.
Its severity may cause death to patients, this is why having the operation from specialized doctors is vital.
Nowadays, Transoral Endoscopic Thyroidectomy Vestibular Approach or TOETVA has become a great treatment approach for patients since it does not cause a large surgical scar, as well as the performing of procedure, that has good efficiency due to an operative location which performed extremely close to the thyroid gland.
This is a reason why patients have a low risk of heavy blood loss additionally, recovery time is shorter allowing them to go back home quickly.
What is the immune system?
Immune system (IMMUNE SYSTEM) is a natural defensive system created by the body structure through biological processes such as tissue cells, organs and molecules.
The immune system acts to prevent and resist various diseases, if it is powerful, chance of getting affected by various diseases will be decreasing.
Types of immune systems
Innate immunity, such as NK cells (natural killer cells, which are components of the innate immune system from the bone marrow, considered as one of white blood cell)
Adaptive immunity, consists of...
Active immunity, it is created after the body receives antigens or specific weak pathogens of a disease, for instance, vaccines used to protect that specific disease.
Passive immunity is an immunity derived from blood of living thing provided by injecting it to the body in order to resist spread of disease immediately such as, serum that used to cure snake poison, rabies, tetanus, diphtheria and breast milk.
The importance of immunity
When the immune system works well, it is like having a strong army team that can be able to protect the body from the invasion of various germs such as, bacteria, viruses, or germs.
Each of them has different sizes.
For example, a small size of it like virus that our body can easily attack.
However, if the size is big (tumor) then it is essential to have more numbers of strong immunity to fight against it.
The body immunity that has both, good amount and quality, the attack from infection, cancer and other diseases will be stopped, therefore, your body will go back to its normal condition.
In addition, the word "germ" means everything that causes you infection or disease.
NK CELLS Function
Army team of the non-specific immune system in the body include NK Cells (Natural Killer Cells) considered as a type of white blood cell, known as "Lymphocyte".
Moreover, this cell is a key component of the immune system compared as a frontier that fights against dangerous foreign cells.
Normally, the body contains about two thousand million to five thousand million of NK Cells, when the foreign cells invade in the body, the cells can immediately detect it and fight the harmful cells within 24 hours.
As a result, these following reactions will be showing:
NK Cells will deal with foreign cells by creating a chain reaction which directly kills the foreign cells called “Cytotoxicity”
NK Cells will work along with releasing protein into the bloodstream called “Cytokine” that responds by calling other cells in the immune system to come help the NK Cells kill foreign cells such as, preventing the growth of tumor.
How does the NK Cells Activity Work?
The efficiency of NK Cells capability called “NK Cell Activity” is a measurement of ability whether the body can fight the harmful foreign cells effectively or not, including helping a doctor evaluate the strength of the immune system for this prevention.
NK Cell Activity is a value that reflects number of factors or diseases in people individually, for example, high stress, insomnia or improper nutrition.
Those with low NK Cell Activity value may have indication of high risk for diseases, which could be any infection.
However, even it cannot define an exact disease that maybe a person is having but, the value supports doctor’s decision for providing additional screening in case if the person has a condition of health or any specific disease.
Level of NK Cells Activity Measurement
Immunity NK Test is the first technology that helps measuring amounts of IFN-gramma, this value helps assess capacity of the non-specific innate immune system that defines an ability to prevent the body from virus infection and fight against cancer cells.
The measuring accredited by The MFDS (Ministry of Food and Drug Safety) October, 2012 (12-1357) and Novel Health Technology after being approved by NECA (National Evidence-based healthcare Collaborating Agency) June, 2014.
Who should receive NK Cells Activity Screening?
Healthy people who would to check up their innate immune function.
People with frequent infections.
People who have been exposed to hormones or pollution directly for a long time.
People with chronic fatigue symptom.
People with a history of heavy smoking.
People who have family members with a history of having cancer.
Increase power of your immunity by NK Cell Therapy
For those with an indication of low NK Cell Activity, which is below its normal value (100-250), the function of the NK Cells may relate to health- conditions or sign of disease during its early stages.
Therefore, they should improve and enhance their own immunity.
Furthermore, although the indication of NK Cell Activity remains normal (250-500), that person still requires well-care of the immunity.
The doctor will analyze the value together with health check-up to provide a proper suggestion for patients to boost their immunity individually such as taking mediation or keeping the immunity cells (Active NK Cells + lymphocytes) from their blood so that it can used for boosting the immunity in the future or suddenly.
Moreover, this immunity from NK cells can be maintained up to 5 years, available anytime when it needed.
Colon cancer is one of the common diseases found in Thailand.
Improper lifestyle or habit such as eating becomes a major cause of this disease.
To protect yourself from the cancer, these are some of eating techniques you might need to follow:
Have more HIGH-FIBER meal
Fiber can stimulate the digestive system and reduces the amount of your waste or stool.
A study mentions that taking more than 10 grams of fiber per day helps decrease a risk of Colon cancer.
The recommended high-fiber ingredient for your meal are cereal, cabbage, and spinach.
Take more CALCIUM
There is a research showing calcium consumption daily which found that group of people having highest amount of calcium consumption from milk can reduce 20 percent chance of cancer risk.
Have FISH instead of red meat
Although a fat form red meat can increase a chance of prostate cancer, but not for colon cancer as there is no evidence to confirm.
A cause of colon cancer might come from other factors, such as, cooking with high temperature etc.
Therefore, to reduce the risk, it is better to consume omega-3 from fish instead.
Have HIGH MAGNESIUM foods
There are many studies about a relation between magnesium and the Colon cancer.
One explained that, to consume more magnesium by 100 grams a day would decrease a risk of Colon cancer by 12%, which is equal to having 4 ounce of fish, 2 ounce of peanut and ½ cup of spinach.
Control alcohols consumption
According to many researches indicate that alcohols are linked to Colon cancer.
Male should not drink more than 2 glasses per day and female should have only 1 glass of the drink per day to minimise the risk of Colon cancer especially those whose family member has the record of the disease.
Apart from controlling your food consumption, smoking and lack of exercise are also related factors enhancing the risk of this cancer.
Therefore, the best way to prevent the cancer is lifestyle modification.
Ways to get Fast Recovery after The Knee Surgery
When patients are allowed to go home for their rehabilitation, they may still feel pain or feeling tense around the area which in fact, swelling, bruising and clot could be appeared on the thigh, knee and ankle.
However, if the area of ​​the wound becomes red and there is abnormal secretion such as yellow fluid outflow while the pain is more severe right after taking painkillers, including be unable to bend the knee like it used to or even patients may not impacted by what mentioned but if it happens due to attacking of accident like falling, walking, swelling and the skin on the area goes dark with noticing that the knee is loosen along with fever, patients then highly recommend to go see a doctor immediately.
For patients with no complications, physical therapy may be needed.
Spending a daily life carefully is recommended by following the structure below:
What should those having knee replacement surgery do after the procedure?
Manage knees and leg muscles regularly and try not to bend the knee especially during first two months to avoid stiff in the knee which affect a walk.
Going up and down stairs, might start a walk with inoperative side on while walking down, patients need to use the operative leg.
However, using walker also requires special attention.
In the first 2 weeks, patients should practice walking with walker to support the weight of the body during the walk which might compress the knee including protecting an accident like falling.
Moreover, when patients feel more confident to walk, the walker then may not needed.
Every 1-2 hours patients should do a short walk to gradually stretch and relax the contracted muscles.
Then try to do longer walk to pace based on their ability and muscle flexibility.
After walking or sitting for a long time, patients should find times to rest and raise up the feet higher than the position of the heart using pillow to support which helps prevent the blood and body liquid from being obstructed.
Moreover, do not forget to use cold compress for relieve the swelling.
For daily activity, bending down to touch the feet as stretching or twisting the body as well as standing and laying down for instance, patients should do it slowly with care.
Nevertheless, the patients can still do lying on side but it would be better if postures are changed frequently.
Actually, avoid doing gesture that cause compression to the operative knee and not letting it being compressed for long hours are mandated.
Weight control is a way to lower the friction including force that affects the artificial knee however, another benefit of losing weight is that the knee does not carry much weight according to the body.
After walking and recovering, light exercise such as walking or swimming is suggested for the patients in case that the wound is completely healed.
However, consulting the doctor should be done first.
Also the patients can do cycling or yoga as these workout can be done within short period.
Maintain healthy oral health and do not hold for urination in order to avoid the infection.
If patients have to receive dental treatment to scrape stone or veneer including other oral diseases within 2-3 years after the surgery, we recommend you to inform that to a doctor so that you can receive the antibiotic medicine to prevent bloodstream infection which may spread to the operated knee.
Keep seeing your doctor every time you have an appointment including receiving the screening and additional examination based on prescription.
What should not be done for people who have had knee replacement surgery?
In the first 3 weeks after surgery, do not drive.
After that can start driving for a short distance.
n the first 6 weeks, do not lift stuff weighted more than 5 kg.
In the first stage, sitting on a knee or sitting on a low seat as well as going up and down the stairs are recommended to be avoided.
Avoid sports that have bumps, jumps such as basketball, badminton, tennis, running.
Avoid walking or doing activities in the dark or inadequate lighting. Do not walk on wet areas especially the bathroom where falling or slipping are easily happened.
Avoid having sex in the gesture which the knee is bent over 90 degrees.
Avoid heavy activities such as bending so much knee or knee-stretching quickly.
Complications after Knee Surgery Prevention
Knee replacement surgery prevalently drives patients and their relatives worried as apart from waiting for a result after the surgery, postoperative care requires to be more concern to make the patient cure faster along with preventing him or her from complications is also counted.
For that reason, patient having correct understanding or knowledge in self-care after surgery is a must as it helps reduce anxiety in themselves and prevents them from the complications as more effectively.
If every step is made properly according to physician instructions and multidisciplinary team, the patient then would be cured and be able to return back to normal life quicker.
What is Artificial Knee Surgery?
For Knee Replacement Procedure, doctor will take out deteriorated cartilage then replace with the artificial one.
During a procedure, a surgeon will adjust its size to fit with the patient’s knee joint matches with the angle of the boone.
After that, blending both joint skins together using specific medical implantation Materials.
Treatment After The Surgery
Health care after operation requires medical advice and strict following to prevent the complication so that the patients can be able to recover quicker and return to their normal life.
First 24 Hours after Surgery
The patients still hold surgical drain, foley catheter and saline infusion tube.
Nurse will monitor blood pressure and pulse every 1-2 hours and will put a pillow to support the operated legs and raise up the toes in position higher than the heart which can reduce swelling.
In order to stimulate blood flow and reduce swelling of the toes, patients will be trained to move their toes up and down .
In addition, if the patient does not have nausea or vomiting, soft diet food and drinking water will be served to them.
Day 1 after Surgery
Cold compress to reduce swelling will be provided.
Physical therapists helps patients train leg muscles by teaching them how to practice stretching the legs.
Those whose condition remain normal the doctors will train them how to walk and stand using walker.
Day 2 after Surgery
Knee moving training will continuously be made such as stretching legs and knee but while sleeping cold compress and raising up legs in high position still require to reduce the swelling.
If patient can walk well, using toilet train will also be served.
Moreover, after learning how to practice using the toilet when patients learn to do it well the catheter then will be removed to refrain a chance of infection then the doctor will permit to remove the blood or surgical drain afterward.
Furthermore, later if the patients are able to drink and eat normally without having nausea or vomiting the saline infusion tube then will be taken off.
Day 3 after Surgery
After done training in a room .
Physical therapists then will help training patients by letting them walk up and down stairs.
Day 4 after Surgery
This is a warp-up session of all walks, training exercise that they can do it at home during rehabilitation will be demonstrated.
Patients will be able to bathe themselves using waterproof plaster to protect surgical wound from getting wet.
However, after the patient walks with waking support well and there is no complications effect.
Doctors then will allow them to return home.
Causes and Symptoms of Postoperative Knee Replacement Surgery That might Occur
Infections of surgical wound could happen on account of the artificial knee which is considered as foreign matter of the body plus, immune system might not be able to reach in that area.
Despite the infection, receiving well-treatment by doctor can protect bad symptoms.
The blockage of capillaries in the lung caused by thrombosis in the vein during surgery or fat released into the bloodstream then obstructed in the lung as a result of it abnormal breathing then occurs.
Knee stiff can occur for that reason, patients are unable to bend or stretch their knees fully.
Fractures that occurs near the knee.
Most happen due to accident such as sliding down on the floor.
The knee joint may be loose or deteriorated prior to its time.
That may cause many complications doctors and multidisciplinary team require ton hand in hand to prevent patients from such a situation and to provide timely procedure.
WhichSymptoms are Abnormal
Although most surgical procedures are achieved and less likely to develop complications or infections.
However,patients still need to be aware of disorder symptoms such as uncomfortable feeling and fever or feeling pain only in the surgical area.
When symptom of knee pain occurs more frequently especially while moving that might derive from inflammation of both knee and its tissue.
In addition, fever also be one of infectional effects.
According to that, the solution is preparing means as soon as the symptoms found please immediately inform your doctor for timely treatment.
Treatment for Complications
If the patient has abnormalities after surgery.
The doctor will diagnose and select the treatment as follows:
The doctor will diagnose when the results of the blood test, X-ray and effusion of joint from laboratory said there is infection.
On the contrary, if the effusion is stable and free from infection doctor then would be able to cut and open the knee joint to sterilize and clean the area then provide antibiotic after.
Nevertheless, if there is infection also the artificial knee becomes loose and moved from its position .
Surgeon then needs to open the area to clean up the wound and sterilize it which prevent the area from contamination by infectious stimuli moreover, cutting out the tissue and taking off the artificial knee fully will be done after.
Next, the doctor will replace the area back with Antibiotic Cement Spacer then give the antibiotic and wait until the patient healed completely in order to replace the artificial knee back to its position afterward.
At present, the innovation of artificial knee surgery has been developing continuously.
Thus, surgery now is more effective.
The old belief that said knee surgery will never make you walk normal again is totally inaccurate and there is no complication effect after the procedure as patients will not suffer from the pain and cure fast.
However, after the surgery, patients and their caregivers require to follow the advice of physicians and physiotherapists strictly in order that the knee can work well again and their conditions can be cured shortly.
Superfood to strengthen Your Knee
For people with osteoarthritis or knee pain from having too much body weight will make the symptoms worse and take longer time to be cured.
They should adjust some eating habits.
Even though, eating foods is not a direct treatment, receiving proper nutrients could reduce weight problems as well as chance of having inflammation.
Moreover, Also proper nutrient can help strengthen the joints and muscles in the body.
Recommended Foods for Osteoarthritis Patients
Foods rich in omega-3 fatty acids especially seafood: fish, salmon or freshwater fish.
It helps strengthen the joints and reduce pain and inflammation in those with knee inflammation and joints stiffness.
Foods containing antioxidants or beta carotene like vegetables: leaves olf morinda citrifolia, agasta,spinach, collards, broccoli,water minosa and bean sprouts.
Moreover, tomato, carrot, red cabbage corn and pumpkin as they are rich in variety of vitamins especially in green vegetables as Vitamin K in it helps maintain bone strength.
Foods with high calcium; such as almonds, black sesame seeds, milk, soybeans and soy milk products such as water, tofu.
Moreover, small fish is also included as it contains calcium that strengthen the bones.
Notwithstanding, you should eat foods consists of high vitamin D like,milk, eggs, sardine fish since it supports calcium absorption for the body.
Foods or fruits rich in vitamin C; such as guava, pineapple and papaya as vitamin C will help prevent the body from free radicals.
Foods containing bioflavonoids; such as cherry, blueberry, apple, green tea, onion and tomatoes, have anti-inflammatory capability and increases absorption of vitamin C which creates strength of the tissue.
Therefore, blood vessels wall and capillary then are firm enough to reduce themselves from swelling.
To control the body weight, you should have foods that are hot,steamed, and cooked for instance fried rice or green curry chicken in coconut milk.
Foods That Osteoarthritis Patients Should Avoid
Supplements and vitamins: It is highly recommended to consult a doctor as the doctor will diagnose whether the patient is deficient in any type of vitamins then will determine the dose of it due to certain types of vitamin might not be vital for the body also the price is sometime very expensive.
Moreover, taking them with high amount may cause bad effect to the body.
Salty foods or high sodium foods: Avoid cooking food with salt, soy sauce, fish sauce, seasoning sauce as well as salty foods, fermented foods, and snack.
The reason of avoiding them is that they may cause the cells to over absorb water in the body which result in Edema .
Dessert or sweeten foods: It may affect the immune response system of the body causing wound or knee inflammation to happen easily.
Fried foods or foods that contain high saturated fat as apart from making you weight gain this type of food may increase inflammation inside the body for example fried pork, fried chicken, fried fish patty, fried fish balls fried, cake and icecream.
Meat cooked with high temperature for a long time: Apart from destroying good nutrient in meat, the cooking produces AGEs (Advanced Glycation End Products) that can cause inflammation in the joints.
Alcoholic beverages: The drinking may stimulate various symptoms including lowering the affecting of medicine use causing ineffective result as well as other bad side effects.
Coffee or Drinks contain caffeine: The caffeine drives calcium out of your body through the urine leads to calcium imbalance. If a person body takes or holds large amount of it, as a result the bone mass can be smaller.
Be Careful !!
Some activities might cause you risk of Osteoarthritis
Today, many young people start taking care of their health as well as body weight by running or cycling which are popular workouts at the moment.
However, there is still problem in some people who feel pain in the knee joint during the exercise due to the knee muscles might not be strong enough.
Also, most of people thought running gives them osteoarthritis which that could be inaccurate.
For that reason, in order to receive proper understanding, the information is provided as below,
Risk Activity should be avoided
Those whose works require lifting or carrying heavy loads by using the back.
This situation causes more pressure on the knee especially when you have to carry heavy loads stuff and walk up the stairs.
That will increase more pressures or compression to the knee joint similar to those who are overweight.
In fact, the risk of osteoarthritis in people with overweight is higher than other people .
Therefore, if you have a career that require heavy lifting on a regular basis, you are highly recommended to use equipment to support your body and knee joint.
Those who usually do squatting or crouch for too long including sitting on the floor for meditation and sitting on the knees these postures cause compression to the knee.
Therefore a person should change a posture frequently such as sitting on chair to let both legs stretch.
Athletes or those who are sport players that join sports with collision like, soccer, american football, basketball, rugby or boxing.
Theses types of sports might lead to rupture of cartilage including ligament which affect the strength of the knee joint.
Although playing sports can benefit your health, being hit or attacked intensively during a game might not be supportive to the main benefit.
Therefore players should be aware of these problems.
However, if you find having some disorders or symptoms still persist, it is highly recommended to seek for medical treatment and inform your doctor immediately.
In addition, avoid playing collisioned sports by swimming, cycling running, aerobic dancing and badminton are recommended.
Some exercises can deteriorate the knee strength due to excessive stretching such as jump-squat, running down on stairs and cycling that might require bending of your knee.
Therefore, saddle position should be adjusted to support the knee so that it does not need to bend or being pressed.
Knee Osteoarthritis Prevention
Losing Weight : Control body weight to make it standalized to save the knee and other joints.
Knee Muscle Management : Managing muscle around the knee will support the knee while lifting object so the knee bone does not need to carry too much weight.
Exercise by running : Running does not hurt the knee as many people misunderstand and talk about as running makes heart muscle stronger including keeping the body weight under standard.
However, for those having a lot of weight might start walking at first to ensure the right time for running.
At the same time, for those having the osteoarthritis or deteriorated knee before then running may not be the right exercise.
Therefore, receiving an authentic consulting from specialized doctor to know what type of exercise can manage your knee.
Those having gout or rheumatoid arthritis.
Infection in the joints may occur according to that the cartilage of the joint deteriorates faster.
Patients should take care of symptoms closely and receive advices from doctor about how to care of your knees and bones properly.
Short Stature in Young Children
Pediatric at Phyathi2 Hospital Dr. Nuanphong Rienmanee said factors affecting the growth of children based on gene.
Today there are 10 percent of many parents who have come to receive consulting.
60 percent found having a problem transferred by older generation.
Apart from that, some disorders caused by hormones which could be a major factor growth hormone deficiency or thyroid for example.
These two conditions require treatment from experienced doctor that helps recover a condition back to normal.
How do you know if a child is shorter than standard?
Basically, girls are taller than boys by the age of 10-11 and will stop by the age of 16.
Mostly a boy physical body would be developed longer or slower than girls.
However, by the age of 12-15 the boy will still keep growing until 18 some could be 20.
The average height of Thai men is 160-180 cm.
while women is 150-170 cm.
Children suspected of having abnormal growth should be diagnosed with early diagnosis as some conditions can be treated in time and it is better to be treated since a young age.
According to older age it result in effective outcome.
What is Growth Hormone?
Growth hormone is a type of hormone produced by the pituitary gland, small glands located at the center of the brain.
It serves the growth to children followed by age.
However, it also affects the process of sugar production in the blood.
If there are some disorders to the pituitary gland, the hormone then will be decreased causing delayed physical development in your children.
Growth Hormone Abnormalities Detection
To detect growth hormone level apart from phlebotomy, medicine taking or injection will be utilized to stimulate the growth hormone.
Thus, patients need to fast before receiving both treatment.
Examination of Disorders caused by Thyroid Hormone Deficiency
Proving phlebotomy to detect the level of hormone in case finding the disorders hormone supplement then will be given through their mouth.
Treatment for Patients with Genetic Disorders
Even this is evitable however there are solutions to support your children growth like good eating behaviour, exercise and sleep.
The main food that should not miss is protein from meat that stimulates the natural hormone in the body.
In addition, the body requires adequate energy and calories from carbohydrates as well as vitamins and minerals such as calcium.
They help build strong bone mass and zinc that generate growth hormone which contribute the growth hormone function.
Treatment for Patients with growth Hormone Deficiency by Hormone Injection into The Skin
Patients who respond well to the treatment of hormone injections lacking of the considered as a cause.
However, the more deficiency the more effective results.
Therefore every patient require the receiving of screening before receiving the treatment procedure.
Each child has different shapes and stature.
Some might look small but still categorized as normal.
If parents want children to grow up fast supporting them by serving five groups of foods along with encouraging of exercise and letting them take a full rest or sleep as growth hormone produced and leaked from pituitary gland while exercising as well as during their sleep.
Danger of Diabetes Complication
Disease that Thai people should seriously focus on now is “diabetes” according to static result shows that, one-eleventh people found having the disease calculated as 9.8% of the Thai population.
As a result, Endocrinologist and Metabolic Therapist,Dr. Rattaphong jiwarangsinee has explained as follows.
In general, our body has its own mechanism process, to regulate blood sugar level, the insulin released from the pancreas is the main part where the sugar is sent to muscles, tissue and liver.
It also blocks the liver from producing the sugar.
For that reason, if the level of insulin is insufficient the blood glucose will arise or if it cannot function properly, the body ,therefore, is leaded to Insulin Resistance causing high blood sugar within the body.
90% of Diabetic Patients in Thailand Have (Type 2) Diabetes
Dr. Rattaphong explained that the diabetes is divided into four major categories which are type 1, type 2, Gestational Diabetes (diabetes during pregnancy) and the diabetes categorized as others.
The Type 2 diabetes is caused by insulin resistance (Insulin resistance) normally while eating the pancreases will produce the insulin to lower the level of blood glucose, problem is the resistance condition that causes ineffective function to the insulin as the blood sugar is not sent properly.
The sugar level then increases when it happens for a long time Glucotoxicity will be created to the body system leading to Insulin Insufficiency.
Diabetes Symptoms
The symptoms divided as follows:
High Blood Sugar - High Blood Sugar Levels cause frequent urination, frequent thirst for water, weight loss, sweet urine that attracts ants, fatigue.
However, these symptoms may be difficult to observe because they may appear delayed, therefore, patient will not be able to notice when they occur.
Symptoms of Complications – When Long-term illnesses are not treated properly.
Symptoms of complications in the organs may occur such as:
Kidney-Foamy Urine, fatigue, swollen skin, pale, nausea and renal failure.
Heart - Patients areat risk for coronary artery disease.
The symptoms may include chest pain, legs swollen and pain while laying down the body.
Eye - The disease will cause complications to the eyes with Diabetic Retinopathy, during the first stage symptoms may not be showing, but it can be detected using screening through the retina.
In fact, if its severity is harmful, there is high chance for blindness.
Foot - Foot ulcers are what common in the patients.
Some of them have it infectious which later spread to other areas quickly, the ulcers could be fatal and cause the patients death.
Nervous System - People who have been with the disease for many years could have the nerve system damaged with several serious side effects.
For example, numbness or pain that makes them feel like being stabbed by needles.
Brain – Improper Self-care of patients may cause cerebral thrombosis or stroke.
As above, there are many complications of diabetes that can affect the organs inside the body.
Accordingly, it could be difficult to observe some of the symptoms at early stage, thus, blood screening/test for glucose measuring is what can provide result that help you lower the risk for the disease.
8 Essential Hormones that You have to Handle
Our body consists of hormones produced to function and associate with other organs so that its system can process properly.
Therefore, it is essential for us to be mindful about some abnormalities occur within the body.
Hormones of Happiness
Endorphin
Endorphin is a hormone secreted from the brain, known as 'Happiness Hormone', compares as natural morphine that the body releases when a person is happy.
It is ejaculated to stimulate positive feelings.
However, when the person is in stress or depression , the hormone then will be decreased regarding negative circumstances.
How to Increase The Hormone Levels
Do what your heart says
Excercise more than 20 minuites to stimulate the Endophine
Do medication
Reach the climax in the middle of romantic intercourse
Dopamine
Dopamine is considered as affectionate hormone released from the cells and brain.
This hormone associates with different part of nerve system such as brain function, body motion, memory and learning.
If it is in underrate level our feeling can be negative with stress and depression.
As a result, symptoms categorized as mental illness, regarding recent development of mental medication, the Dopamine is improved to be used in remedy.
n addition, in elderly populations who have low dopamine found having Alzheimer’s disease that is because the nerves and muscular system are not correlated the motion, therefore, is unable to maintain its right direction due to intensive shaking.
How To Increase Hormone Levels
Exercise
Have foods rich in Amino and protein as the dopamine synthesized by the amino acid called Tyrosin deriving from meats, egg, bean, and milk including others.
Serotonin
Serotonin is anti-stress chemical substance leaked from the brain and gastrointestinal tract that affects muscular system, emotion, behavior and sleep.
If its level is extremely low it can lead to bad moods, insomnia, loss of concentration, headache, and migraine and eventually cause depression.
Tips for increasing the Serotonin
Exercise
Have the foods that consist of high protein where Tryptophan is produced which is one of amino acids that secrete the Serotonin.
Stress Hormone
Cortisol
The Cortisol is secreted from the adrenal gland, considered as steroid that the body can produce.
The cortisol is listed in a group of Stress Hormone.
When there is stress, negative situation or sickness, This hormone will stimulate the body to response to inflammation, pain, infection including activating the liver to produce more sugar.
The body therefore, needs more energy than usual, people may gain weight.
Apart from that, it also helps control the level of water and minerals in the body to maintain the body pressure so that it can function normally.
How To Increase The Cortisol
Have enough rest, as the hormone will increased in the morning and decreased at noon.
If the sleep time is ordered properly , its function will adjust normally.
On the other hand, for those not having proper sleep , the secretion of the cortisol will not be able to boost energy within the body causing insomnia to that person.
Adrenaline
The Adrenaline or Epinephrine produced from the adrenal gland.
It is the hormone that associated with anger and and self-defense.
The body will responds to boost the body for energy consumption muscle and cardiac system to fully function, the heartbeat then raise faster together with blood pressure.
Surprisingly, this hormone released when we are in rush, excited, scared such as in conflagration, some people can lift up heavy stuff and run fast to get things out of a house.
However, it is leaked exceedly that could be sign of tumor in the adrenal gland.
Sex Hormones
Testosterone
Testosterone is male sex hormone secreted from the testicle, it requires cholesterol for synthesizing meaning our body must contains fat that can turn into sex hormone.
The hormone will transform or change physical structure starts from younger age to older.
Muscles will be enlarged, hairs will grow longer in different areas of the body as well as cracked voice and a change of genital.
If the body has low testosterone, the body then will not be able to develop properly causing delay of body development such as sexual dysfunction and Atrophied legs.
How To Increase Hormone Level
Have enough exercise
Have food consists of sex hormone contributor such as Zinc in oyster
Estrogen
Estrogen is female sex hormone produced by the ovary.
It develops the body of women such as breast, hip and skin including menstruation, egg producing, ovulation and muscular system.
If its level decreased especially in those having menopause between age of 45 to 50 as there is a risk of osteoarthritis regarding bone density.
How To Increase Hormone Levels
Have foods that contain high estrogen, such as coconut water, soybean milk, but still cannot take it to replace the hormone completely.
Progesterone
The Progesterone is the hormone that comes with pregnancy, mostly increases during menstruation where eggs are matured enough to be fertilized with semen.
The Progesterone can be secreted by the ovary and the adrenal glands.
This hormone stimulates the endometrium during the period to let embryo embedded in the uterus.
On the contrary if it is decreased, instead of having the pregnancy, the menstruation then released in every month.
The hormones mentioned above are natural substances that the body can synthesize by itself.
We can stimulate them and maintain its balance by adjusting some behaviors, such as having enough sleep or five groups food.
Protect Influenza in Children by Vaccines
Flu is a disease that is found throughout a year mostly in rainy season and winter.
The cause named “Influenza virus" from mucus,saliva or sputum.
Patient is contact by coughing or sneezing.
What is Flu?
There are 3 major types of influenza A, B and C.
Each of them is divided into different types.
The incident of this disease happens each type is one type.
Accordingly, the body then has immunity for that type of influenza, however, that does not mean a person will be safe from other types.
The incubation takes around 1-4 days.
The strains of influenza results in outbreaks and each outbreak is named based on origin, such as the Hong Kong flu, the Russian flu, the Singapore flu or H1N1.
Symptoms of Influenza
High fever, headache, fatigue, muscular weakness, anorexia, bitterness in the throat which causes sore throat, nasal congestion, dry coughing and discomfort.
On the other hand, some patients may not have any symptom appear.
Fever might be above 38.5-40 degrees Celsius approximate which occurs within about 2-4 days, then gradually decrease.
Coughing and feeling fatigue about 1 to 4 weeks even certain symptoms are relieved.
Face turning red including the eyelid.
Patients may have mucus and may feel sore throat.
Treatment for Influenza
Taking enough rest by having enough sleep avoid overworking and taking a shower by cold water.
Apply wet cloth and have steamed rice together with water or juice.
Symptoms will be treated by Antitussis and Common Cold (Children should avoid using aspirin)
Take Amantadine and Ramantadine which doctor will consider way to provide treatment in patients individually.
Antibiotics, doctors will be given to patients while having bacterial complications.
Patients may have yellow mucus or green sputum, sinusitis, middle ear inflammation and bronchitis, etc.
A child or elderly with asthma suspected of having pneumonia should be taken to a hospital.
The doctor will have to provide antibiotics on basis of the type of found infection .
Influenza Protection
Generally, those having healthy physical condition require treatment similar to common cold by watching hands regularly including having foods with good nutrition.
Avoid touching or being next to people with a disease using mask and receive vaccine injection every year.
Who should receive flu vaccination?
Children 6-23 months old and those who are close to flu patients.
Adult aged over 55
Children aged 6-18 with diabetes, kidney disease, blood disease and lack of immunity taking aspirin for a long time.
People with chronic diseases such as chronic lung disease, asthma, heart disease, kidney disease, diabetes,immunodeficiency and obesity.
Those who are hospitalized in the past year.
Those working as Medical staff, laboratory staff, nursery staff or working in nursing home or a place surrounded by chronic disease patients.
Pregnant women, especially during the last month.
Tourists traveling abroad to visited places where there is the outbreak.
Who are not allowed to receive the vaccination?
Children aged under 6 months
Those who are allergic to fur or leather.
If symptoms are not severe such as having rash, the vaccine is still given however symptoms need to be observed at least about 30 minutes after the injection.
Acute illness
Having high fever
People with severe complications
If your family has children please do not forget to take them to receive the flu vaccination as severe symptoms may cause a patient death.
Hand Foot Mouth Disease in Children and Prevention
The Hand Foot Mouth Disease does not just exist in this world actually it occurs in Thailand in the past but there is no any official announcement on how it affects people due to its mild level of severity which might not many kids or someone death.
However, parents should not overlook about it in regard to this topic here is the information helps parents prepare for the prevention.
What is The Cause of Hand Foot Mouth Disease?
This disease is caused by Enterovirus 71 (EV71) Coxasackie Virus.
The incubation period is about 3-6 days.
After infection, mostly people found being infected known as risk groups would be children aged under 5, especially children aged from 6 months - 3 years old.
How The Transmission Process Work?
This disease can be contacted easily by nearly hundred percent of infection rate from one person to one another, especially in young children during the outbreak.
Salivary transferred by oral ulcer
Getting infected by eating food contaminated with the virus.
The infection still appears after symptoms are being shown.
The disease will remain during the first week or might take longer than that.
The Symptoms
Children with 3-4 days of high fever and Vesicle on the palms, feet, tongue and gingiva.
On the first day patient will feel pain and unable to eat along with over amount of saliva as well as rashes on both legs.
However, the fever will be decreased within 5-7 days.
In adult, symptoms might be different for example high fever, muscular weakness, oral ulcer.
Most of symptoms will disappear within 1 week the vesicle and on the palms, feet will gradually disappear.
One of complications that will be found could be meningitis and myocarditis.
These symptoms Require Children to See a Doctor
Having fever over 39 degrees Celsius for more than 2 days.
Feeling Exhausted
Feeling sleepy all day.
Vomiting for more often than 2-3 times a day.
Having Muscular Weakness
Being restless and shocking.
Guidelines for Treatment
In general, symptoms will improve themselves.
A doctor will treat patients on the basis of symptoms.
Some children are unable to have food and water due to the ulcer in their mouth.
For that reason, they then avoid swallowing food or saliva due to the pain including not cleaning or looking after oral health causing it to be healed longer on account of complication.
The doctor mostly provide saline along with cleaning the oral area.
Moreover, antibiotics will be used only when it is necessary.
However, patients require these behavioural modification as follows:
Taking good care of personal hygiene such as washing hands.
Eating clean food and always use serving spoon while having meals with other people.
Patients should wear a mask and wash hands including mucus and saliva etc.
Hygienic Care to Prevent Disease
Although there is no vaccine against the disease.
The best protection is hand washing, personal hygiene and toys cleanness and appliances.
Avoid taking your child to a place where they can be exposed to the disease, such as playgrounds.
For people with osteoarthritis or knee pain from having too much body weight will make the symptoms worse and take longer time to be cured.
They should adjust some eating habits.
Even though, eating foods is not a direct treatment, receiving proper nutrients could reduce weight problems as well as chance of having inflammation.
Moreover, Also proper nutrient can help strengthen the joints and muscles in the body.
Recommended Foods for Osteoarthritis Patients
Foods rich in omega-3 fatty acids especially seafood: fish, salmon or freshwater fish.
It helps strengthen the joints and reduce pain and inflammation in those with knee inflammation and joints stiffness.
Foods containing antioxidants or beta carotene like vegetables: leaves olf morinda citrifolia, agasta,spinach, collards, broccoli,water minosa and bean sprouts.
Moreover, tomato, carrot, red cabbage corn and pumpkin as they are rich in variety of vitamins especially in green vegetables as Vitamin K in it helps maintain bone strength.
Foods with high calcium; such as almonds, black sesame seeds, milk, soybeans and soy milk products such as water, tofu.
Moreover, small fish is also included as it contains calcium that strengthen the bones.
Notwithstanding, you should eat foods consists of high vitamin D like,milk, eggs, sardine fish since it supports calcium absorption for the body.
Foods or fruits rich in vitamin C; such as guava, pineapple and papaya as vitamin C will help prevent the body from free radicals.
Foods containing bioflavonoids; such as cherry, blueberry, apple, green tea, onion and tomatoes, have anti-inflammatory capability and increases absorption of vitamin C which creates strength of the tissue.
Therefore, blood vessels wall and capillary then are firm enough to reduce themselves from swelling.
To control the body weight, you should have foods that are hot,steamed, and cooked for instance fried rice or green curry chicken in coconut milk.
Foods That Osteoarthritis Patients Should Avoid
Supplements and vitamins: It is highly recommended to consult a doctor as the doctor will diagnose whether the patient is deficient in any type of vitamins then will determine the dose of it due to certain types of vitamin might not be vital for the body also the price is sometime very expensive.
Moreover, taking them with high amount may cause bad effect to the body.
Salty foods or high sodium foods: Avoid cooking food with salt, soy sauce, fish sauce, seasoning sauce as well as salty foods, fermented foods, and snack.
The reason of avoiding them is that they may cause the cells to over absorb water in the body which result in Edema .
Dessert or sweeten foods: It may affect the immune response system of the body causing wound or knee inflammation to happen easily.
White rice flour; such as, pasta, cereal, white rice grains which may stimulate inflammation of the bone joints.
Fried foods or foods that contain high saturated fat as apart from making you weight gain this type of food may increase inflammation inside the body for example fried pork, fried chicken, fried fish patty, fried fish balls fried, cake and icecream.
Meat cooked with high temperature for a long time: Apart from destroying good nutrient in meat, the cooking produces AGEs (Advanced Glycation End Products) that can cause inflammation in the joints.
Alcoholic beverages: The drinking may stimulate various symptoms including lowering the affecting of medicine use causing ineffective result as well as other bad side effects.
Coffee or Drinks contain caffeine: The caffeine drives calcium out of your body through the urine leads to calcium imbalance.
If a person body takes or holds large amount of it, as a result the bone mass can be smaller.
Dengue Hemorrhagic Fever in Children
Dengue virus has 4 serotypes: DEN1, DEN2, DEN3, DEN4.
The first infection called Primary Infection which might not give out any symptom as in the body there is immune system goes against the virus about 6-12 months.
For another infection comes after called Secondary infection which instigate to more severity and complication.
"Mosquitoes" Carrier of The Disease
Dengue is caused by female Aedes aegypti, a carrier.
When they go bite people the disease then transferred through the body.
The incubation takes about 2-10 days.
Who are at Risk?
Children who are not infants or younger than 2 years old.
However, for infants they receive antibodies through breast milk.
Children always have daytime sleep that is one of channel for the mosquitoes carrying the disease come to bite and make it transmitted.
Actually no matter what how old you are there is still a possibility for you to be infected by the mosquito.
Symptoms and Signs
Patients with dengue infection main symptoms are high fever, headache, muscle pain.
bone pain with red spots on skin.
The symptoms are divided into 3 stages as follows:
Body temperature will rise over 38.5 Degrees Celsius quickly within 2 to 7 days, some may have seizures.
Patients often have red face, anorexia, do coughing, vomiting, liver enlargement, pain, rash spread on the skin, body, arms, legs, armpits due to brittle blood vessels or the Tourniquet test.
In addition, the spot where bleeding is seen will be found patients may have nosebleed, gum-bleed and black stool.
Crisis condition: During this symptom the temperature decreases rapidly causing patients feeling restless with cold feet and hands, the lips turn dark green.
Certain of them suffer from abdominal pain before the shock.
Pulse rate slightly pumps whilst blood pressure goes low.
If the patients are not treated in time they could be dead within 12-24 hrs.
On the contrary, in those with mild symptoms after the fever decreased everything will be stable and healed sometime might have sweat on palms with cold feet shortly.
However, that is a sign of being save in addition, they will also start being hungry and want to have some foods.
Recovery period: Generally the symptoms will clearly be improved blood pressure and pulse reamin normal.
The enlarged liver will be smaller within 1-2 weeks, usually patients will have rash on legs, hands, and feet along with being itchy.
How to Take Care of Dengue Patients
Currently there is no medicine that can kill the virus most of doctors provide palliative treatment on basis of symptoms as follows:
Wipe the body by cloth to prevent patients from seizures.
Provide paracetamol and the most important thing is "Never use aspirin or any type of pill similar with it” as they instigate to irritation in the stomach which lead to bleeding innerly.
Give the patient fluid supplementary as most of the patients have high fever, feeling of anorexia, vomiting and fatigue.
Suggest them to drink mineral water more often.
Provide soft food or diet hospital food which is digestible.
When you are suspected of people in a house having the dengue fever due to the signs such as body temperature over 38.5 degrees Celsius for more than 2 days or having facial red,inflamed throat, headache and pain in the socket.
These require the patients to see the doctor as fast as possible.
Prevention
Prevent yourself from being by the mosquito, sleeping on Bed with Mosquito Net even during the day.
Getting rids of mosquito breeding by removing the larvae in containers and pouring salt and vinegar to the pantry plate.
Close the container lid firmly such as the water tank.
Always change or dispose the water containers to prevent the mosquitoes from laying eggs.
Destroys debris such as can or bottles to keep it from accumulating the water.
Having fish eat the mosquito larvae.
Cut the tree out of some areas to make the light comes in as well as air flowing.
Protect yourself from being bite by mosquitoes by checking a cleanliness of a window or door including rooms do not forget to put on anti-mosquito product such as cream or spray.
Meningitis is a disease that causes infection to the central nervous system.
The disease is derived from several infections such as viral infections, bacteria, fungi and helminths respectively, these can occur in both children and adults.
Who are at Risk?
People with high risk are children aged under 2 years old due to the immune system in the children still develops incompletely.
The disease then can impact on many organs easily.
However, even the Meningitis is barely found in Thailand, but when it happens most of patients will be in danger based on condition and health individually including how fast the patient is taken to a hospital.
In addition the disease also cause the patient disability as well as death if they are not saved in time.
Misunderstanding about “Meningitis Vaccines”
Although meningitis is currently preventable by vaccination but most parents are misled about the meningococcal vaccine that the HIB vaccines given to every child can prevent them from the meningitis.
In fact, there are many types of bacteria that cause meningitis even HIB vaccine can still not be able to cover it.
They are pneumococcal disease,salmonella infection and meningococcus.
Therefore, parents should always be aware of it.
Currently, HIB and pneumococcal bacteria vaccines can actually cover this disease.
For the pneumococcal bacteria vaccines is called IPD which apart from protecting your body from the disease it also prevent you from IPD diseases including pneumonia.
Nevertheless the vaccine is still optional and not regulated as a basic vaccine for all children.
Parents must consider the cost of injection their own children and for the meningococcal disease, there is vaccine for it as well.
Moreover, for the salmonella infections that cause meningitis there are no vaccines available.
The Initial Signals that Parents should not Overlook
Meningitis has fast expression especially in young children.
Therefore, when children are sick parents should observe their symptoms closely.
Main symptoms are similar with other general diseases which are headaches, nausea, vomiting, restlessness and anorexia.
There are also some other symptoms that can be observed which are fever, sensitive eyesight, neck pain, depression,convulsions and weak limbs.
If it occurs to children aged under 1, the symptoms are often unclear.
Doctors need to do CSF to confirm the diagnosis and continue a treatment effectively.
"The Meningitis is very severe affects the central nervous system causing intellectual disability including physical disability and the loss of life.
Thus, raising children healthy by giving them 5 dishes of cooked meal and fresh.
Wash your hands thoroughly.
Maintaining good hygiene in a house including doing exercise regularly .
These help protect the body from bad diseases.
Moreover,parents should avoid taking kids to crowded areas like hospital as it is contributor for the spreading of this disease.
The colon cancer becomes one of common disease which is often found in people; at the same time, the number of patients has been increasing constantly.
One of symptoms that cause patient urgently go to see a doctor is bloody defecation.
As stated, the consultant at ASIT Advanced Surgical Interventional Technologies Center, Phyathai 3 Hospital, ASS.PROF.DR.Thanyadej Nimmanwudupong and a doctor from gastrointestinal clinic Phyathai 3 Hospital, DR.Sanchai Prasertpetmanee have answers for you.
Severity of Blood Defecation
Dr. Thanyadej explained that blood in stool derives from the defecation sometimes you can even notice it clearly after the defecation is finished.
However, for another cause of the blood, it may come from a different reason which could be somewhere inside the body that make your stool color change to abnormal color.
Each type of blood in the stool helps doctors diagnose diseases differently as the symptom could be signs of many serious diseases apart from hemorrhoid.
Therefore, as soon as you can detect or notice it, you are highly recommended to promptly see the doctor to receive a proper treatment suiting with your condition.
As mentioned, this is for your benefits.
Diseases Associated with “The Blood in Stool”
The severity from this symptom can be accounted by number of defecation time of patients as well as amount of blood.
Those who have more blood definitely contain high risks from many diseases.
In fact, drop of the blood after the defecation may be happened by rectal vein ulcer.
On the other hand, if the blood only comes with the defecating that means this could be a sign of heavy bleeding from the colon some disorder might happen to it.
In accordance with that, these are list of disease caused by this abnormality.
Hemorrhoids
Rectal bleeding is main symptom of hemorrhoids due to diarrhea or constipation pushing.
For that reason, the rectal veins start swelling and being unable to go back inside which later causes patients Hemorrhoids.
Some of them become inflamed and prolapse out from the anus.
However, the patients can feel pain while walking or sitting.
In addition, what you need to know is that its severity can start by bleeding every time you do the defecation or you may find the blood when you wipe tissue to clean the anus as mentioned.
Although mentioned symptoms happen, what one thing you can obviously notive is the color of stool which will always remains normal.
Moreover, the pain may not affect in certain cases while some patients may feel pain around the anus along with feeling itchy including obstructed defecation.
Arteriovenous malformation
It is caused by small arteries that accidently duplicate themselves with numerous amount.
In regard to that, this later causes bleeding to a person during defecation.
Moreover, it can come with both forms either blood clot or liquid without abdominal pain.
However, this disease is always found in elderly aged over 70 and in some patients the bleeding can stop by itself.
More importantly, even symptom disappears, you still have to see the doctor to ensure a condition as the symptom is not distinctive enough to be defined as specific disease.
Colorectal polyp
This polyp is transferred by heredity, a disease is mostly found in men aged over 50.
In fact, this condition can develop to colon cancer as the polyp can locate in any area of the colon.
Its shape looks circle with soft pink color and many of them will be grown inside the colon.
However, sometimes symptoms are not shown while there is bleeding inside the colon.
This is why the stool is covered with the blood.
According to that such symptom can happen periodically and mostly doctors will recommend patients aged over 50 to receive colon screening properly so that the polyp can be found in time.
Colitis
It caused by some infectious diseases such as dysentery.
The major symptom happens when you have frequent defecation with fever, anorexia, abdominal pain and blood in stool.
However, these symptoms require patient to quickly receive treatment.
Colon Cancer
This disease is commonly found in many countries around the world including Thailand.
Most of patients are older than 50 in regard to that what they usually suffer from the disease are constipation, diarrhea or blood in stool.
After having blood loss, some people come to see a doctor due to the loss causes them anemia.
Moreover, according to what mentioned, this cancer more detected in the abdominal cavity area close to the colon than the rectum and what we should know that it actually happens due to eating habit of those who love to have food that contain high fat regularly.
On the other hand, another reason of its source is genetic, in term of that circumstance, the cancer cannot be cured meaning that patients may require colonoscopy or another treatment alternative in order to detect the disease and remove the cancerous part in time.
However, this concept is used to help prevent the disease from its spreading.
Colon cancer and Blood in Defecation
Dr. Sanchai explained that usually the cancer is found after screening or any time when symptoms are shown such as blood in stool, which is primary symptom in most patients.
It is a reason why they rush into the doctor.
In addition, some people may only have blood alone without being shown in stools.
In order to receive an accurate result, patients must have endoscopy.
Hemorrhoids is not Colon Cancer
Patients with hemorrhoids has blood defecation while patients with colon cancer also come with the same symptom.
According to that Doctor Sanchai added, after seeing this initial sign, patient need to look after themselves properly by consulting pharmacist and when it still does not improve, please do not leave the symptom until it gets worse due to those who came to meet him always find having the colon cancer with ulcer instead of hemorrhoid.
Therefore, keep in mind that after 1- 2 weeks of looking after yourself to treat the hurrmuroid, the symptom cannot be improved, happens and disappears periodically.
The patients must see the doctor urgently to make sure it is actually the hemorrhoid or colon cancer.
Signals from Your Stool
The change of your stool size, such as hard to liquid or liquid to hard and it also becomes smaller for example first diameter is about 1-2 cm then changes to half of centimeter like it is compressed by the tumor.
In regard to that, it could be the sign of cancer.
Nevertheless, if the cancer is in the cecum, patients then will have bowel obstruction instead of blood in the stool.
Moreover, this group of the patients will only suffer from severe abdominal pain.
Symptoms That may Lead You to Colon Cancer
Symptoms are shown depend on where the tumor is located.
If it is near the end of the colon or anus means that the symptoms can be noticed quickly for instance having blood in stool etc.
Fast noticing helps detect the cancer during first stage.
Treatment then work well and there is a high chance of cure according to the quick detection.
On the other hand, those who find having the cancer in the top of the colon will always come with the symptom of bowel obstruction.
It is considered as near of last stage causing difficulty during the treatment.
However, as soon as find yourself having some abnormalities during defecation, do not be hesitate to meet the specialized doctor as fast as you can.
What are the causes of this disease?
Most of the causes come from external factors such as eating habits.
People who like to have fried food can have more risks as well as those who love drinking alcohol or smoking cigarette regularly.
For internal factor could be genetic people whose families have a history of colon cancer also have more risks.
Preventing Colon Cancer
Colon cancer is found to be on top of serious disease in Thailand including breast cancer and cervical cancer regarding the way to protect yourself from the disease are as follows:
Having more foods that contain fiber
fruits and vegetables like bananas or papaya can help prevent constipation.
Avoid foods with high fat or strong taste that irritate to the stomach.
Drink at least 8 glasses of water a day also do not forget to avoid alcoholic beverages.
Avoid holding defecation
according to that it causes the colon taking water back to the body.
The stool then become hard due to lack of the water.
A person will find obstruction while excreting.
Good protection is to make your defecation set on time, for example, in the morning and most importantly do not push while having the excretion as it cause blood obstructing around the anus as well as swelling and ulcer.
In addition using your mobile phone or reading books while using toilet are not allowed.
You are recommended to leave the toilet after done with your secretion.
Exercising regularly and consistently
Do not sit or stand in the same posture for too long because this increases pressure in the anal veins which is the risk of hemorrhoids.
However, the exercise can make the muscles of that area become strong also prevents you from constipation.
Cleaning after done using the toilet
You are recommended to clean the bottom with water after done using the toilet instead of using tissue since the latter can create the anal ulcer inflammation as some bacteria from the stool then will transfer infection to the ulcer.
Why Blood in Stool Requires Screening ?
The most important thing which both patients and doctors must collaborate with each other is to find the cause of disorder.
Hence when the abnormality occurs, please rush to receive examination in order to detect these following causes of the disease……...
To find the real cause of blood defecation
If bleeding is caused by the hemorrhoids.
The doctor must examine the anus internally to point out where the location of the bleeding is.
The doctor has to examine the anus by a finger and endoscopy.
As soon as the hemorrhoids are found but there is no evidence of bleeding means that it is not a cause of the bleeding.
As stated above, both methods are used to ensure the patients if there is nothing other than the hemorrhoids as the cause such as colorectal tumor or cancer.
Moreover if the cause is still unknown, this means additional screening is required as the cause may locate in somewhere deeper causing the fingers or tool being unable to reach.
To plan for the treatment accurately and promptly
If the bleeding comes from hemorrhoids, the disease will be treated appropriately based on each stage.
If the blood comes from the tumor, the doctor then will remove the tumor and analyze what kind of tumor patient is having in order to plan for further treatment.
To stop the bleeding; the case of unstoppable bleeding
If the blood comes from the hemorrhoids and it does not stop, the doctor then may either have to provide patients injection or surgery.
If the bleeding is derived from other causes, the doctor then will give you endoscopy to detect the cause promptly and to find the most suitable method for patients which require both experienced doctor and advanced equipment.
Colonoscopy with Phyathai 3 Hospital
The Colonoscopy is an effective way to evaluate problems with the colon.
A process ulterizes a small flexible tube set with camera and light at the end in order to present clear image of organs.
The doctor then can be able to see pathology clearly and providing accurate treatment to different areas.
As mentioned, today, using camera during operation has been developed and resolution of it is quite high.
In addition, it is made of fiber optics which is harmless to the patients meaning that they will not feel pain during procedure.
The examination takes about 30-40 minutes.
The doctor then will use a sleeping pill.
When that patient falls to sleep, the camera will then be inserted through the anus.
If there are polyp or abnormalities, they will be treated all at once.
Preparing for Endoscopy
Before going under the procedure, the doctor then will provide laxatives to patients one day in advance.
They need to avoid having fruit 2-3 days before the procedure to prevent the intestine from having things left over.
However, recently, medicine that helps adjust the intestinal movement has been developed and does not cause lack of minerals to the body.
During examination, there is a way to relax patient as endoscopy is quite detailed for Colon Cancer Screening such as detecting tumors or polyp that can develop to the cancer.
As mentioned, this method helps removing the cancerous part in time which also reduce the risk for colon cancer.
How to deal with Blood in Stool
Give information to the doctor thoroughly.
Do not be embarrassed if you have to receive screening through the anus whereas it is very important.
Be recommended to see the doctor to receive the screening on the same day that bleeding is found.
How do doctors and nurses provide the treatment to patients?
Ask them about history of illness as well as providing them physical examination.
Provide anal screening thoroughly to see where the blood came from.
Check condition of bleeding in the stool.
Do Blood tests for additional test based on condition
Do Blood tests for additional test based on condition
Quick Screening Increase More Chances for Cure
Doctor Sanchai added that we all have to look after ourselves since getting to know the disease and after noticing some disabilities then you need to quickly go see the doctor.
Moreover, the possibility for cure can happen especially during 1-2 stage on the other hand, for stage 3 doctors may need to observe its spreading such as where the cancer is located which is possible for the patients to be cured.
When the process is completed, there is follow-up plan set to observe symptoms.
During 1 year, 3 years and 5 years, patients need to receive check up regularly to prevent reoccurence or in case when the occurrence happens so that symptoms will always be under control.
No symptoms but you still require the colonoscopy
Dr. Sanchai said that nowadays the colon cancer becomes well known and more people suffer from it.
As mentioned, it is very important to raise awareness in those who are still free from the disease.
In addition, people who aged over 50 are recommended to receive the colonoscopy.
Moreover in case of the place in which the screening is provided is unfavorable, other methods for example stool test will be applied instead.
However list of those who require the colonoscopy is as follows:
Those who love having read meat, high fat food
Alcoholic drinkers and smokers
People with irritable bowel syndrome or chronic bowel inflammation
People aged over 50
People having a family with a history of colon cancer
The colon cancer is not the most dangerous disease.
People just need to have good eating habits according to nutrition.
Also we have to always observe our excretory system so that when the abnormalities are found, people will know that they must see a doctor to receive treatment promptly.
Finally, for those who still have no signs of the disease, we also would like to recommend you to have the screening before it is too late.
Many people perceive that hemorrhoids is the only one disease causing the bleeding to defecation as people think this may not lead them to the colonoscopy.
However, do people actually know that there are many diseases that also could be the cause of the bleeding as well?
For example, tumors in the colon, vessels in the colon, polyp in the colon, colitis and cancer.
Therefore, to find the reason why we require the colonoscopy, all answers are below
How to deal with the bleeding ?
Give information to the doctor thoroughly and do not be embarrassed when you must receive anal screening as both processes are very vital.
Do not be depressed if you have anal bleeding or excretory disorders.
Please consult the doctor immediately.
It is very helpful to patients if they meet the doctor on the same day when the bleeding occurs.
Get the Colonoscopy... to avoid the DANGER
Both doctor and patients have to looking for the real cause of abnormality.
Once it is found, the detection is actually needed because…
To find the real cause of blood defecation if there is nothing other than the hemorrhoids such as colorectal tumor or cancer as well as the cause is still unknown.
This means additional screening is required due to source of the disease may locate in somewhere deeper as the fingers or tool are unable to reach.
To plan for the treatment accurately and promptly If the bleeding comes from hemorrhoids, the disease will be treated appropriately based on each stage.
On the other hand, if the blood comes from the tumor, the doctor then will remove the tumor and analyze what kind of tumor patient is having in order to plan for further treatment.
To stop the bleeding; in case of unstoppable bleeding If the blood comes from the hemorrhoids and it does not stop.
The doctor then may either have to provide patients injection or surgery.
However, If the bleeding is derived from other causes, the doctor then will give you endoscopy to detect the cause promptly and to find the most suitable method for patients which require both experienced doctor and advanced equipment.
What we should know to ensure that the bleeding is not cancer is whenever the abnormalities are found, we must immediately receive proper screening by the doctor.
If one day in the morning you wake up and find that the stools consists of blood.
It might cause you worry and upset.
However, there are many forms of this defecation.
According to that, the consultant at ASIT Advanced Surgical Interventional Technologies at Phyathai 3 Hospital Center has all answers served for you.
Severity of Blood in Stool
Blood in stool is easy to be noticed, for example bleeding after defecation or sometimes the blood is already in the stools showing as a sign of abnormality.
However, each defecation differentiates types of diseases not only for the hemorrhoids but also the other serious illness.
Therefore, it is very important to consult your doctor for an accurate treatment and precise resulting.
What The Stool Tells You
The severity of the disease is based on how many times the defecation comes with the bleeding or blood which also includes the amount of the blood.
In fact, people who have more blood are possibly facing many diseases in the future while those having the bleeding after the defecation may only have the anal ulcer.
However, this symptom can define a condition of bleeding inside the colon caused by some disorders as well.
Hemorrhoids
Blood in the stool is a major sign of this disease caused by many factors such as chronic pulling or pushing during the defecation, diarrhea and constipation.
As mentioned, the anal veins then become swollen and cannot go down.
Consequently they change to hemorrhoids blisters, some patients have the severe inflamed blisters which prolapse outside the anus and be unable to get back inside causing that person severe pain while walking or sitting.
In addition, every defecation, there will be followed by the bleeding including drop of the blood found in tissue after cleaning.
On the other hand, those who do not have blood in the stool and pain or do not suffer from mentioned symptoms periodically will have feeling of pulling pain around the anal area along with itching as well as obstructive defecation.
Colon Vessels Disorder
This disease is caused by small blood vessels.
There are unusual blood in two forms clot and liquid without abdominal pain.
Moreover, it is often found in elderly aged over 70.
However, the bleeding can stop by itself but patients still require to see a doctor to ensure a condition as this may be a sign of some dangerous diseases.
Polyp
It is caused by hereditary abnormalities which mostly happens in men aged over 50.
It can develop to cancer as well as being able to occur in any part of the colon.
Its shape is circle and color is pink.
By the way what you should know that this thing can grow inside the colon with various amounts.
Most patients have no symptom showing while sometime the bleeding may occur inside.
In fact, this is one of reasons why the stool comes with the blood.
Such a symptom happens irregularly and most of doctors always rememend their patients aged over 50 to receive a proper colon screening to detect the polyp that may occur without noticing.
Colitis
It is caused by certain infectious diseases such as dysentery.
The major symptoms are shown by stool appearance such as when the stool comes with liquid form like water or sometimes patients may have frequent defecation along with fever, anorexia, abdominal pain and blood.
However, as mentioned the patients require having an additional screening based on the condition.
Colon cancer
This disease happens to people around the world including Thailand which now becomes a common illness.
Most patients are people aged over 60.
They have to experience some abnormalities, for example constipation, diarrhea or blood in stools, etc.
However, some patients come to the doctor due to the blood loss that leads them to anemia.
In addition, this cancer is usually found around the colon area such as abdominal cavity.
It is caused by eating habits; those who love having food that contain high fat have high risk for the disease including those having transferring from genetic.
The cancer cannot be cured so that it requires patients to receive colonoscopy in order to remove cancerous part and prevent its spreading.
If you click on this page that may be because you are not certain about what gallstones really is.
Today, we have good information from Orthopedic Surgeon Dr.Sujin Sukhahuta at Phyathai Nawamin Hospital who have clarified us about cause, treatment, sign of symptoms as well as self-care techniques for Gallstone so that you can prevent yourself from a disease.
What is importance of "Gallbladder"?
The doctor has described the nature and importance of gallbladder that it is a type of organ located under the liver on the right side of the rib responding for trapping bile from your liver which means when you intake food as soon as they are transferred into the stomach, the gallbladder then will contract or squeeze itself to release the stored bile in order to digest fats.
For that reason it causes them breaking into small drops which being ease to being absorbed.
What cause Gallstone in your body ?
For many people who are wondering how gallstones appears inside the body.
The answer to clarify your doubt is "Gallstones are caused by the imbalanced substances from the bile.
Generally, the substance composes of cholesterol, bisol and bilirubin which the imbalanced amount eventually leads to gallstones due to precipitating.
Preliminary Symptoms of "Gallstones"
Dr. Sujin added that the techniques to observe the initial symptoms are similar to gastritis for example flatulence, chest pain and rib pain.
Most occur after meal, especially oily food which is considered as one of risks.
It affects the body by causing gas in the stomach including nausea, vomiting and shoulder pain.
These symptoms may appear about 15 minutes or all night then will disappear later.
That is a reason why people do not visit a doctor at first.
In addition, majority of mentioned symptoms may relate to chronic gastritis or chronic indigestion. However the gallstone always being detected after having a screening meaning that those are at risk the doctor will provide them ultrasound to detect the gallstone symptom directly.
"Who" is at risk for gallstone ?
The risk factors associated with gallstone are various, such as age, sex and personal behavior.
"Women are more likely to develop gallstones than men because their body contain accumulated fat like cholesterol which is a component of bile.
Apart from that those who aged over 40 or elderly that diagnose with hyperlipidemia als well as whoever has a family with a history of gallstone are also included on a list.
Improper lifestyle can cause you the gallstone
Apart from sex and gender, living habit such as non-exercise or having unhealthy food are also vital factors.
The doctor said that the bile contains cholesterol, Bisil and Bilirubin.
So if we eat more fatty foods then high cholesterol will be increased and balance of the bile becomes imbalance.
At the same time the cholesterol is stimulated to cause the gallstone.
"Surgical Treatment” for Gallstones
Although treating gallstones can be medication or specific procedure, but the doctor gave a comment that it does not work well as the gallstones requires only surgery for the remedy.
Therefore, that is a conclusion which is applied at the present called Laparoscopy proving patients minimal pain and scar.
Accordingly, the patients are able to stand the pain during a process also recover fast after it being done without hospital stay requirement.
The "Surgery" limitation
The limitation mainly based on condition of the patients individually “firstly, screening for the risk of using anesthesia will be provided to detect some limited conditions in them for example in those who are old or have some serious diseases such as heart disease, brain diseases as well as complicate infection or whom have been operated on the upper part of the abdomen also the lower part are going to be considered for not being undergo by this method due to theses patients may have fascia that cause some difficulties during the process.
However, the surgery will always be the first option before using traditional abdominal open surgery.”
How to take care of yourself after surgery
Every doctor always gives full attention to a surgical wound care “In the first week, patients must receive wound cleaning every day or some cases may receive by skipping day by day while food that patients are allowed to intake should not be oily, rich in strong taste, or hard to be digested.
Moreover, for living or doing activity the doctor will suggest them to avoid doing workout including outdoor activities in about 1-2 week after that then they can start doing light exercising.
How to prevent yourself from this disease?
Taking care of yourself is the best defense.
The doctor has recommended that you should avoid having oily food and replace it with food that contains fibers along with behavior modification such as doing regular exercise to prevent yourself from obesity and hyperlipidemia.
In addition; those having a family with a history of gallstone should receive annual screening often or when you feel having flatulence, chronic indigestion then should receive the screening from specialized doctor as soon as possible to detect the disease properly.
We strongly believe that getting some information about big operation especially “Gallbladder Surgery” in advance can help relieves anxiety of both patients and family.
As mentioned, in this article we have provided you basic knowledge about the surgery called Laparoscopic Gallbladder surgery for Gallstones from General Surgeon at Phyathai Nawamin Hospital Dr.Sujin Sukhahuta as follows
1st Step : Physical Examination
After patients are found having gallstones, doctors then need to prepare them for the process by providing lung screening, heart screening as well as blood test and disease screening basing on age and health condition.
This is done to access some risks that may occur during the procedure.
However, after all checkings, they will be sent to the next step.
2nd Step: Hospital Stay for surgery preparation
After the patient has been assessed to protect some risks that may happen in surgery including receiving physical examination.
Doctors usually make their patients stay in hospital before the operation to receive saline as a part of the process.
Moreover, fasting is required for about 6-8 hours before undergoing the procedure.
3rd Step: Moving to the operating room
When the process starts, anesthesiologist then will provide anaesthetic to the patients.
After that, 3 to 4 small incisions (cuts) will be made under the navel, chest and rib around 2-3 cm.
so that medical tool can be inserted through the cuts while the gallbladder can also be clamped off from the abdomen.
This procedure is not only used to remove the gallstone, but it also used for complete gallbladder removal.
4th Step: Complete the process
After the gallbladder removal being completed, the doctor then will suture the wound.
As soon as the patients recover and there is no bad side effects such as fever, nausea, vomiting within 1-2 nights meaning that they can have food and return home to live lives normally.
Even the surgical procedure is finished but self-care after surgery is still essential for the patients in order that they can have the most effective result from the procedure.
Many people may not know that eating habit is a cause of gallstones.
The menu that risk you to the disease are all types of junk food.
According to that, you may question on how can theses foods associate with the gallbladder.
Here is your answer.
Did you know that the bile contains fat?
Actually, the bile contains these three types of fat which are cholesterol, bisol and bilirubin.
Briefly, that means the bile itself has the fat.
So, when we have a lot of unhealthy food, it then increases more fat which later will be accumulated and causes balance of bile to change.
Fatty foods vs Gallstones
As mentioned above that the bile itself contains a lot of cholesterol.
When the fatty food is taken to the bile, the accumulation of fat then happens.
The cholesterol late precipitate to become the gallstones.
This is the answer of how fatty food and high cholesterol are associated with gallstones.
“Other food” you should avoid
Apart from fried or junk food, certain types of seafood are also included for example squid, crab, shrimp as well as oyster.
Optimal way to consume them is to have them with decent amount as well as avoid some dessert that contain high sugar and coconut milk such as banana in coconut milk, Khanom mo kaeng, cake, donut and cookie.
Alcohol beverage is also included.
However, reason to avoid having them is due to they can increase and accumulate triglyceride which is a cause of the gallstone as well.
Therefore, the best way to prevent you from the gallstone is selecting the food to consume them properly as well as avoid other foods that can contribute the disease.
Do not be panic if you are one who is going to have gall bladder operation as we have a good way recommended from an expert for you, accordingly just follow these suggestions then all fears will be gone.
For more understanding the suggestions are divided into 3 sessions as follows:
Session 1: Before Surgery
You are not allowed to have water and food at least 6-8 hours before the surgery including alcohol and smoking for at least 48 hours.
If the patient has a disease that requires regular medication then take the medicine to a hospital as well.
Do not forget to inform the doctor and nurse before a process so that your doctor can decide that you can take that drug or stop using it.
Moreover, resting or sleeping is also a must.
The doctor added that patients must have a sleep at least 6-8 hours before an operation day in order to make sure they clean up their body properly.
However, for those with nail polishing or make-up all should be removed while patents or guidance are required to come with patients aged under 20.
Session 2: After surgery
After receiving surgery, surgical wound about 3-4 spots may appear on the abdomen area and this is a normal effect as open surgery definitely causes you larger size of scars than this method.
Some patients need to avoid having food or water after the process while some can have them right after the process is done depending on individual condition.
However, posture that is required in them is the head should be placed in high position for a while to reduce tension from the wound.
After feeling better then they can do some light exercising in bed at the same time while moving the body use the hands to support and carefully protect the wound to lower muscle tension and protect it from being attacked.
Session 3: Recovering at home
During the first period after surgery, the doctor always advises patients to avoid having high-fat foods also having enough resting and exercise decently.
For those who worry about work can be able to return back within 1 week which requires a following of instruction provided by doctor strictly.
Moreover, about hygiene or cleanliness of the wound should be provided by standard accredited clinic or hospital to prevent an infection as it can transfer to worse condition.
On the other hand, the wound covered by waterproof plaster allows patients to have a shower as usual without being cleaned unless there is bleeding.
Furthermore, patients must go see a doctor every appointment punctually.
Theses are what you have to prepare and take care of yourself before and after the surgery which is simple basing on responsibility from both you as patient and a family for example the wounds are treated or how you behave during the remedy so that all results can come out with an effective improvement .
Many people may not notice a difference between gastritis and gallstone even doctors says the symptoms of gastric pain and gallstones is quite similar.
So it might be hard to be able to distinguish.
However if we try to look and observe the symptoms carefully.
There still are a little clues to identify the differences.
4 clues of symptoms
Flatulence after meals
This symptom is the most common case that patients have to experience.
It feels like your stomach is filled with gas while foods you eat become indigestible especially after big meals.
Moreover, pain appears intermittently then will disappear.
Severe back pain
Another symptoms which mostly causes people getting confused is when they have a stomach ache and once they take a medicine, it makes a condition get improved.
Pain is released.
However, shortly the pain will start again mostly happened in chest area or even some feel the pain penetrated to the back.
Nausea and vomiting
When the gallstones is trapped in the intestine and the obstruction occurred, there will be some complication happen for example nausea and vomiting.
Jaundice
In case of the gallstones falling into the large bile duct, this may be a cause of jaundice as well as pancreatitis.
In fact, if symptoms are not treated promptly it may lead the patient to death afterward.
“Chronic Pain & Fever” Distinguishing the difference of symptom
Although the symptoms of gallstones are similar to the symptom of gastritis, there are distinctive symptoms from the gallstones such as flatulence or chronic food indigestion.
However, even if they are treated with anti-gastritis medicine but later the pain will still return.
Moreover, another outstanding symptom is fever, patients with gallstones usually have fever as well as abdominal pain caused by gallbladder inflammation which means that general sign of gastritis does not include the fever.
We believe that many people have lost their confidence in talking and smiling.
This happens due to tooth problems like color, decay, gap, tiny or imbalanced size as well as fracture.
Accordingly, veneer can be your best solution, which gives you back the confidence.
What is "veneer"?
Veneer is a type of crown.
A process provides patients artificial teeth, which is similar to a general crown but it does not cover the entire tooth area.
However, a doctor always applies thin coating to the area of interchangeable facing or your teeth’s skin in order to solve the mentioned problems, such as, mottled tooth, grey color, irregular shape as well as snaggle tooth.
Two Different Types: Two Different Materials
1. Veneers made of composite resin; It provides you the closest shape and color of real teeth.
A price is inexpensive but, a result may not be permanent , because some of materials contain color absorption quality.
Meaning that if that patients start to drink tea, coffee or smoke after 2 or 3 years, the color will change and a new one together with the process will be made again.
According to that reason, the process takes one time to complete but it quite long.
Therefore, if there are 6-8 teeth that need to be treated, it may take up to 3 hours.
2. Veneer made of ceramic; The advantage of ceramic veneer is that it has no color absorption quality but quite expensive.
However, in terms of durability, if patients receive a proper fit teeth.
In this case according to a research found that over 95 percent of them can have the crown for more than 10 years.
Furthermore, to receive the treatment, patients are required to see a dentist at least twice.
The first time is to receive teeth drilling and make tooth impression, then send to the lab.
On the other hand, the second time is made while waiting for a result, which is different from the previous.
A dentist then will apply dental restorative materials to patients for temporary, later, about 1-2 weeks later actual veneer will be replaced.
Veneer Procedure
Step 1: Talk to your dentist about your needs.
Some problems may be solved by other processes, such as teeth whitening, fillings, teeth, etc.
Step 2: After your decision is made, a next step is to make impression or your teeth by cloning model for the crown.
A communicating between patients and doctor to ensure an optimal is need during the procedure so that the doctor can give the best resulting to the patients.
Step 3: A preparation for dental drill or teeth reshaping has to be made based on cases for example, if the teeth are already have perfect arranged line.
The 0.5 millimeter drill process will only be made for the patients.
In fact, in the case of buck teeth, the drilling has to be more intense according to the suitability of teeth lining.
Step 4:Put the Veneer on the teeth.
After Procedure
After the procedure you will have beautiful teeth which absolutely close to your actual teeth.
They can be cleaned by brushing or using dental floss as well as scaling.
In addition, its function can work closely to the actual teeth.
Therefore, patients should not be worried about any bad effect after having the veneer.
One of patients’ concerns before having gallstone surgery is how they can live normally without gallbladder.
Consequently, today we have information provided by Dr.Sujin Sukhahuta, General Surgeon at Phyathai Nawamin Hospital to get this question clarified.
Where is "gallbladder" located in the body?
The location of the gallbladder is in the upper part of the abdominal cavity on the right side next to the bottom of the liver.
The size of gallbladder is about 4 inches with pear-shaped appearance.
Function and Importance of Gallbladder
The gallbladder is responsible for keeping the bile produced by liver.
It usually squeezes itself to release the bile to digest fat from food intake.
Therefore, when we have food, the food then will be sent to the stomach.
After that, the gallbladder will release the bile to break down fat from your meal.
What will happen after the gallbladder has been removed?
The doctor explained that the Gallbladder is just a part of the biliary system which acts as a bile reservoir.
Actually, the source where the bile is produced is the liver which means the bile can still be digested after the gallbladder gets removed.
According that, the body does not have to contain the bile at one spot then it goes straight to the stomach and intestine.
Even though, the efficiency of fat digest might not good as before, in a while the body will be able to adjust and work normally.
"Headache" can occur to everyone.
Some people periodically have the pain while another has to suffer more than 1 day or year which is known as “Chronic Headache”
Why we have a headache?
Usually, headache is found in people commonly.
Some of us may have a little pain while another may have severe pain.
The cause from different types of headache is various, whether it comes from tension, migraines, or disorders inside the body such as brain tumors, aortic aneurysm, inflamed nasal cavity and eye disorder.
Accordingly, all contains severity distinction.
What is a cause of chronic headache?
Actually, chronic headache is a symptom by which the pain continues over 15 days each month or 3 months for maximum.
It could be a common headache caused by migraine, stress or improper medicine.
However, it then will eventually lead to chronic pain as well as other serious diseases.
Harmless Symptoms from Chronic headache
It is a headache caused by migraine, stress, thinking, sitting, insufficient light or muscle tension.
You might have nausea and vomiting.
Although such symptoms cannot be cured, we all can still avoid getting close to triggers and relieve the pain.
Dangerous Sign from Chronic Headache
It is symptom of the most severe headache that ever happens to your life which mostly appears along with some disorders of nervous system for example motor weakness, blurred vision, binocular diplopia correction, hearing loss, convulsions, unstable walk, stiff neck, and acute headache.
Warning Signs of Dangerous Headache
Headache which suddenly happens.
Headache with fever and stiff neck.
Headache with neurological disorders such as motor weakness, facial palsy and unstable walk etc.
Headache which happens to cancer patients or HIV patients.
Pain from headache gradually increase intensively and does not respond to treatment.
Can Chronic Headaches be Treated?
Chronic headache treatment is divided according to severity.
Basically a doctor will criticise through patient's history after detecting the symptom by screening physical condition including nerve system.
However, when there are nothing harm to patients, pain killer then will be provided to relax the muscle as well as reduce stress along with suggestion on how to get away from some triggers.
In case of having some abnormalities, there will be additional examination which include blood test, X-ray examination through the skull to detect a sinusitis inside the nasal cavity as well as MRI for more effective resolution.
MRI Diagnosis
MRI is an innovative detection using electromagnetic waves which is safe and harmless to the body.
Mostly it is often used to diagnose brain tumors in particular as the tumors inside the brain and skull including brainstem and cerebellum.
The MRI can apply in diagnosing of many disorders for instance encephalitis and demyelinating in order to utilize a resulting of them in next-step treatment procedure.
Symptoms that require MRI Screening
Having headaches as well as motor weakness in one side of the legs.
Moreover, manner change is also included.
Having frequent seizures or loss of consciousness as well as memory, confusion, nausea and vomiting.
Feeling dizzy like having vertigo or balance disorder
Having facial palsy, dropped eyelid or stiff tongue.
According to headache, it can occur to everyone.
If you notice any abnormality, please immediately seek for medical advice whereas that may be warning signs of some hidden serious diseases in your body.
Headache can happen to everyone of us.
Some people may suffer from its pain quickly while the pain may continue progressing in certain people periodically to 1 year complete.
You should not overlook such symptoms as that may not only be a normal headache but it could be deprived from one of brain malfunctions called "Brain tumor"
What is Tumor?
The brain tumors can be found in people from different ages and genders.
The cause of this disease is remain unknown as mostly it just happens.
Nevertheless, some patients may have genetic abnormalities.
However that does not mean if a family member has this disease, then everyone also has it.
Apart from that, those having radiation around head area or having head injury including immunosuppressive and chemical agents are also at risk.
Severity of Brain Tumor
Level 1: The tumors in this level is still on progressing or growing which has no spreading.
Surgery can be made to cure a patient
Level 2: the severity of the tumors is moderate.
They infiltrate in the brain tissue which this case cannot be cured.
However, it takes time for their enlargement.
Patients can continue living for more than a year.
Level 3: tumors in this level are classified as "cancer" which cannot be cured.
Level 4: a very serious stage of the tumor.
Patients often die within a short time.
Symptoms of brain tumors
Severe headache which usually occurs during the morning after waking up and at night.
It may wake a person up in the middle of the night as well.
Vomit without having nausea
Have convulsion divided into 2 types "Focal Seizures" and "Simple Focal Seizure” both are uncontrollable.
Feel weak in arms, this symptom will gradually increase.
Compression inside the brain causing blurred vision, unstable walk and hemiparesis
May experience acute unconsciousness in some case.
Cause Detection by MRI Brain Screening
As what previously mentioned that there is no exact cause of "Brain Tumors" MRI Screening to your brain helps providing clear vision for tumors or other abnormalities inside the brain.
A process requires principle of electromagnetic wave to arrange the molecules and turn them into 3D Image so that the diagnosis of brain tumors can be made especially for the tumors in skull as well as in the brain or the brain stem.
Moreover, encephalitis or any other disease like demyelinating disease can also be screened by the process the doctors then can prepare for treatment plan properly.
Urgently Receive Treatment...Before it’s too late !!
Although the lumps are not malignant but leaving them untreated may cause the brain system compression and eventually leads to motor weakness, strabismus and facial Palsy.
In addition; death is also included.
Behavioural Modification for Disease Prevention
There are no obvious causes for the disease.
Therefore behavioral modification as follows are solution:
Take enough rest
Do exercise regularly
Have healthy meal
Do not drink alcohol
Do not smoke
Receive annual health check-up
As a result of above information proves that the brain is a major organ in the body.
To detect for some abnormalities, it requires safe technique for an accrue resulting.
In fact, when the symptoms appear please be hasty to send patients to a hospital so that doctors can be able to seek for main cause as well as proving a right treatment timely.
Have you ever had chronic headache ?
It constantly squeezes your head which sometime you have to take a medicine and rest immediately.
That might not be a right solution.
However, the fact is that, this pain could be a sign of some disorders.
To know either having abnormal symptoms or not just by observing yourself according to these following information.
The headache usually appears around your head or upper part of the neck caused by inflammation of the tissue or skull structure of the brain leading to the mentioned pain.
It may come from the nerves inside your skin or on your face and mouth as well as neck and shoulder muscles including blood vessel which supplies the brain.
What “headache” can tell?
In general, each type of headache is characterized by different pains, such as migraine.
This pain occurs to either on one or both sides of your head.
The headaches is derived from tensed muscles giving you to feel tension around the forehead and temple.
It spreads to overall areas of your head while cluster pain usually appears in eye socket.
However, severity of the cluster headache bases on cause, type and location for example face, skull or total area of your head.
Tension type headache
Tension type headache; it is the most common headache in those with stress, fatigue and overwork.
The pain affects by the feeling of being tight around the neck or both sides of your head.
As a result its severity level might go from mild to moderate which include an area of head muscle, neck as well as shoulder.
In addition, this type of headache does not impact your routine activity including not causing you nausea.
Migraine headache
It is a common headache often be misunderstood by uncertain result of diagnosis.
Pain always impacts on working woman.
The level of severity is from moderate to severe which can get worse on account of some environmental factors for instance light, sound, or scent.
However, a few patients may suffer from nausea.
In addition, the migraine headache symptoms could continue expressing more than 4 hours while some people take 3 days for the symptom to relieve.
Cluster headache
Even it is rarely found but when symptom is not being treated properly that can cause you regular torture in daily life.
Nevertheless, this type of pain usually occurs in men and may lead a person to severe pain as well as feeling of being restless.
Moreover, the pain starts from 15 minutes to 3 hours approximately while location of the pain could be around your eye socket and temple.
In addition, patients may also suffer from symptoms of parasympathetic which are conjunctivitis, tears, runny nose and sweating on the face where the pain is located.
Chronic daily headache
This type of headache often goes more than 15 days in one month or 3 months.
Patient may have a tension headache or migraine but symptoms may go longer and become chronic afterward.
However, the fact is that this group of patients may have “medication overuse headache” as a cause of this chronic pain including a consequence from wrong diagnosis, using unprescribed medicine and frequent use of painkiller which then leads to more severity of chronic pain.
Apart from that, there are many more factors that can be a trigger of the symptom for example sinusitis, coronary arterial disease, cerebral hemorrhage, or cancer.
Additionally, the diagnosis must require many information such as sickness record, physical examination and MRI to distinguish types of this disease and prevent the patients from worse condition.
No matter what kind of headache you have, what you should know is that when there are some disorders causing you pain for more than 2 weeks please immediately consult a doctor to receive an accurate advice as well as treatment because that could be signs from complication of diseases.
Headache is one of symptoms that everyone has to experience.
Whether the pain comes from stress , insufficient sleep or migraine but mostly people know that effect from this problem is harmless.
However, it actually disturbs our everyday life constantly.
According to a conception of taking a medicine to heal the pain is considered as incorrect solution due to some of the symptoms may relate to certain diseases for example hypertension, tumors or ischemic hemorrhagic which those can lead you to acute death after.
Headache Warning Signs
Having severe acute headache, which usually takes a second before disappearing.
Having headache with stiff neck , fever and cold.
Having morning headache
Having nausea and vomiting
Having headache while coughing or sneezing
Feeling pain while changing posture, such as sitting or standing
Having one side head pain or pain on the back area of your head
Having contraction or convulsion
Having motor weakness, sensory perception disorder, blurred vision and auditory disorders
Having Facial Palsy
Having unstable walk with diplopia
Having headache as well as fainting
Even though Basically the headache is harmless, proper treatment is still required as soon as the symptom is detected.
Moreover, please observe some abnormalities that occur to your body as that may be a warning sign of some serious diseases.
Although headache is not a serious condition but we cannot deny that it disturbs us in everyday life.
Some people have the pain in the eye socket, temple as well as occiput causing problems during work.
Actually, the cause of these symptoms might come from what we usually overlook such as our behaviour.
Accordingly these are some reasons of chronic headache that we can avoid by the following suggestion:
Stress
This is what we have to encounter everyday if you try to notice some symptoms while being stressed, you may know that heavy feeling of headache may occur in both sides of the temples including neck, shoulder as well as back.
However, after detecting these symptoms frequently it means that you are having stress, being under pressure or depression.
A good solution to solve such problems are doing some creative activities such as going outside your house and start doing full breathing to bring in pure air to your lungs.
Insufficient sleep
Insufficient sleep not only cause headache in the morning but also makes you feel lazy to wake up and wake up with fatigue leading to bad mood.
Therefore, you should rest or sleep at least 6-8 hours a day.
Hot Weather
In fact, the weather can be a great stimulus for headache since the hot weather contains a change of humidity and pressure causing chemical change in the brain.
For that reason it will activate your headache symptom afterward.
Hormone change
Hormone is considered to be the important factor that causes headaches especially during menstruation.
The reason why most of woman have the headache during this period is because the hormone estrogen is lowered.
Chocolate Butter and Strong Taste Food
Food is also an important factor that can affect your health.
For instant, if you have large amount of these mentioned ingredients: cheeses, chocolates, onions, salty foods or food with monosodium glutamate, those may cause yourself headache as well.
Excessive Exercise
It is true that exercise is good for health but overdoing it can make your health condition even worse and even leads you to have a headache.
According to the exercise, it empowers blood flow to your brain and neck.
For that reason, when you overdo it then headache will appear due to swelling of the arteries.
Therefore, working out with decent hours can prevent you from the symptom as well as a stress.
Using computer for long time
Office workers mostly require staying in front of the computer for long time without taking a break.
The fact is that patients often have headache and eye socket pain which mostly manifest during the afternoon or after work since the eyes are used all day.
Moreover, certain of them may feel dizzy, or have nausea.
Accordingly, we recommend you to rest your eyes every 20-30 minutes and do not forget to change your posture to relax the body.
Staring at Phone Screen
Each day, we have to admit that we all stare at mobile screen for hours causing the eyes blepharospasm which eventually leads to headache or pain in eye socket.
Apart from that, it also affects the neck muscle considered as one of the causes for having the headache.
Therefore, we should rest the eyes by winking them more often or looking at something around such as trees in every 10-15 minutes.
As earlier stated, headache occurs to everyone.
Sometimes the pain can be harmless during a short time but sometime, when there are some disorders overlooked by us meaning that they might be bad signs of many dangerous diseases.
Bright light or Noisy Sound could be factors that trigger your migraine pain, while "Food" overlooked from being considered as one of the factors can cause the same severity of the pain.
However, let us take a look on the following list if the menu you are taking contribute to the migraine or not.
Coffee or Tea
Some of us might not be aware that having headache can be stimulated by drinking coffee and tea.
That's because caffeine in tea and coffee affect the central nervous system.
For those with migraine or sensitivity of this substance should avoid drinking beverage containing caffeine.
Alcoholic Beverages or Red-Wine
Headache that occurs while drinking alcohol caused by tyramine, sulfide, histamine and and flavonoid.
They are substances that reduce the levels of serotonin in the brain giving you severe headache especially for those who are in love with clubbing at night.
Bread or pizza
"Yeast" is a big trigger of migraine, accordingly "bread" and "pizza" by which contain tyramine that is a trigger of migraine.
Therefore, those who are at risk must avoid or hastily remove them from their favorite dishes.
Monosodium glutamate
Each day, many foods are taken into the body and some of them contain MSG or flavored substances.
Both contribute and stimulate the secretion of certain neurotransmitters including the nitric oxide secreted from the cells of arterial wall.
The nitric oxide substance causes the blood vessels to expand which that is a reason of having headache.
Chocolate
According to the chocolate, there is no accredited source or research saying that the chocolate is a cause of migraine while many people suffer from the pain after having it.
Therefore, it is better to avoid eating chocolate as that might help you reduce some of your pain.
There are many triggers that cause us headache such as light or sound as well as meals.
The best way to prevent yourself from that is observing what cause you the headache and be away from those contributors to stop the pain.
As diabetes is main cause of amputation proper care, therefore, is essential.
In addition, providing ways for self-care to patients is the first primary prevention to protect them from having amputation as a treatment solution.
There are 20% of diabetic patients who stay in a hospital regarding foot ulcers.
The Diabetes causes 40 to 70 percent of amputation to the patients.
85 percent of Diabetic patients has the foot ulcers.
In every 30 seconds, the patients will lose their feet due to the amputation.
Diabetes patients have risk for the amputation 40 times higher than those not having the disease.
In 2003, there were 194 million people worldwide who have been diagnosed with the diabetes, which expected to rise to 333 million by 2025.
As people now live longer, numbers of the patients then increases.
Lack of exercise or having unhealthy foods in regard of diabetes patient behavior will also be raised including case of complications such as foot ulcer.
Proper foot care together with self-care advised by a specialized doctor can prevent the patients from amputation.
The advice consists of the following topics:
Ways for Prevention
Integrated Wound Care Treatment
What is the best sanatorium?
Follow-up Plan
Advice for diabetics patients and family
Combination of mentioned approach predicted as a key for decreasing rate of amputation in diabetic patients by 49-85 percent
Approximately 6.3 of world population has the diabetes, each year there are more than 3 million people died of the disease and recently the disease is listed as one of the top of death cause disease in developed countries.
Diabetes and Foot
Diabetes patients are at risk of developing dementia (Neurologic complications) and Ischemia where the blood cannot support to the feet.
Both conditions derive from the foot ulcers that are infected; patient may end up with amputation.
Foot ulcers Leads to Amputation
Generally, the disease contributes to the foot ulcer which is why many cases must encounter with an impact (foot ulcer) Statically, 5 percent of many developed countries found that most of the patients with the disease have foot ulcer.
In every 6 people there is one diabetic patient who at least used to have the foot ulcer.
Half numbers of the patients have diabetes however; there are other factors, such as race, climate change and social environment that increase the risk of foot ulcer.
At the same time, the amputation has become significant treatment for the diabetic patients.
For those who lose legs are amputated may have to face with financial problem and bad living.
Foot Care
Taking a good care of the feet can prevent the foot ulcer.
Most of patients with diabetes cannot avoid the amputation but they can take care of inoperative foot.
Preventing Amputation
Learning about observation to detect foot problems from the beginning.
Emergency services
Infection screening and early treatment
Health Control
Wound care by specialists
Foot ulcers in diabetic patients can cause major problems as it makes you stay longer in a hospital, receive physical therapy and also requires special good care at home which is costly.
What is the cause of foot ulcers in diabetes?
Nerve Damage (Peripheral neuropathy)
Patients will not feel hurt due to numbness which may lead to infectious foot ulcer especially in those wearing uncomfortable shoes.
Feet and Toes Deformed
Normally, people have different foot shape and it will continue changing when we get older or the shape could be deformed due to inappropriate shoes or after undergo a surgery including complication in the nerve or wart.
Infection
When the skin is cracked, bacteria surrounds outside may enter to cause the infection.
The wound then is hard to be healed and sometimes the infection is quite severe.
Infarction (Complications of diabetic peripheral vascular disease)
If the blood is not sent to the foot the ulcer may take longer time for recover as the organs need a support from oxygen, moreover, the infarction can make the skin darker and dead.
Injury
Patients with degenerative nerve will not feel pain, which this is dangerous sign as foreign things inside or outside shoes, when patients step on them and penetrate to the foot including being burnt by hot water, all cannot send the pain to the areas and it can cause complication, infection to the ulcers.
Prevention of Foot Ulcer
Good foot care can prevent ulcers and foot injuries by 45-85 percent.
For those having blood deficiency or infarction should follow the instruction below:
What Require in The Patient
Daily foot observation such as scratches, blisters, bruises, or skin tones.
Moreover, swelling and ulcers also need to be observed, you can ask someone for assisting some areas you might not be able to see.
Wash your feet with soap and water every day then dry them carefully.
Apply oil or lotion on the feet to soften the skin.
Please avoid the toe area.
Check the shoes before wearing to eliminate foreign matter particularly stones, sharp objects.
Wear socks to prevent the skin from irritating or touching.
The socks should not be too tight or have holes.
You should choose a new pair of shoes during afternoon to let the feet expand fully and select the right size regarding the foot.
Foot check by a health care team.
Cut the foot nail in straight line angle then sharp it with rasp
Clean the ulcers with sterile material.
Be careful while wearing shoes to avoid dangers to the feet.
What to avoid
Avoid high heel
Do not wear tight socks
Do not pad hot water bag on the feet
Avoid having bare feet or walking on hot surface
Avoid using razor, rasp to wart, consult a doctor for proper care.
Control body weight
Avoid smoking as the blood vessels do not supply the feet fully
Do not wear ornaments on the feet.
Treatment of diabetic foot ulcers
Avoid weighing the body on the feet while walking
Treat the infarction of the feet probably
Treatment of Infection
Control blood sugar, lipids, and blood pressure.
Wound ulcer cleaning including biopsy
Consult and explain patients and family about the disease for more effective result
Detect the cause of ulcer and prevent its repetition.
Many people may wonder how cancer screening is important for us and what you have to do after a result said a risk and why it related to anti-aging medicine.
An obstritian of Familiy Medicine from Phyathai2 Hospital, Dr. Thisara Weerasamai has all answers for you.
Anti-aging does not imply to “Beauty Care”
When people hear about anti-aging, majority of them think of skin care and younger look while its depth meaning is an analysis of cell prevention.
This provides insight screening in the body cells to detect risks for diseases.
Morever, it also considered as prevention of cells in order to restore and prolong time for its degeneration including helping balance the holistic mechanisms system and planing for risk of disease which leading to good health and a long good quaity of life.
Regular health care is not enough
Many times we wonder why some people look healthy or concern more about their healthes such as doing excercise, or avoid overworking but then end up having dangerous disease “Cancer” which is a reason why the anti-aging must be considered together with individual good health care.
“Cancer” The world's number one death disease
Cancer is a major health problem and the number one cause of dangerous diseases that create high death rate in the world population.
Cancer-causing factors include viral infection, smoking, drinking or receiving radiation from chemotherapy.
Another important reason is Gene.
Many patients who receive regular health check-up with a result that has no sign of initial stage of cancer, that is due the check-up may not provide depth screening especially detecting cancer in gene.
As a result, several insight detective screening such as MAMOGRAM, inernal examination and tumor markers screening are detective approach where some disorders from the cancer can be found.
Genetic factors have 10 to 1000 time more likely to contribute risk of cancer.
Today, we can find it through DNA test or screening to know a possility of cancer which may be increased in the future such as colon or intestinal cancer, liver cancer, lung cancer, breast cancer and ovarian cancer.
When the result from genetic screening indicates the risk, in order to give pateints total lifestyle modification, a doctor will plan for his or her treatment either apply indepth or active approach as well as tellling pateints what could be adjusted such as, food, lifestyle or environment; types of food that may lead to the risk, proper workout and 6-12 months insight screening for a disease or surgery will also be planned for the patients.
In general, the diabetes mostly found in the elderly and those who are obese and overweight including patients that have the disease due to hereditary.
In fact, this is only a part of cause which is not totally wrong or right.
Recently, incidence of the disease has been increasing especially in young people.
Type 1 and type 2 diabetes are most found in those aged under 18, which the type 1 found in preschool kids while the type found in high-school kids
Diabetes in children and adolescents is more problematic than people expect as the disease covers every condition impact on health such as blood sugar and complication when they get older thus, knowing how to prevent the problems is essential.
Measurement criteria for diabetes in young children and adolescents is the same as for adults
Receive blood glucose check after abstaining from foods for 8-12 hours, result with over 126 milligrams per deciliter, at least 2 times of the test.
Blood glucose check after swallowing 75 g glucose for 2 hours, result is more than 200 mg / dl.
Blood glucose Randomized screening without fasting ,result is 200 mg / dL.
with symptoms that come with diabetes such as frequent urination, and feeling of body dehydrated
Type 1diabetes : the body's immune system breaks down while the beta cells in the pancreas cannot produce enough insulin to lower blood sugar levels which causes hyperglycemia and diabetic Ketoacidosis.
Symptoms include feeling thirsty, frequent urination, weight loss, fatigue, nausea and vomit.
This type of diabetes caused by a disorder of some genes that regulate the body's immune system.
Type 2 diabetes: This type is directly related to weight gain and obesity.
Regarding numbers of Thai population who are gaining weight due to the change of diet and lifestyle.
They consume more sugar and fat than before without exercising and full sleep .
Therefore, insulin resistance and decreased the beta cells then happen.
Prevention of diabetes in children and adolescents
Although there is currently no way to prevent type 1 diabetes, but it can be diagnosed and treated quickly and accurately.
At the same time the type 2 diabetes can be prevented by reducing the risk factors that can be controlled, such as weight control during pregnancy.
Lifestyle, eating, with low sugar and fat focusing on protein and vegetables - Fruit including activities such as exercise, running, playing sports that can prevent diabetes in children and adolescents.
Treatment of diabetes in children and adolescents
Type 1 diabetes treatment is administered by the injection of insulin only.
Using appropriate insulin levels to reduce blood sugar levels to normal level to prevent a system from blood ketones and high blood sugar.
During first period the treatment process could be difficult however, a doctor and patients and family need to cope with each other to protect complication that may occur in the future more effectively.
Type 2 diabetes treatment is used to reduce sugar levels, along with diet including blood pressure control and body weight.
However, in adolescence, controlling over diet and medication is quite difficult as teenagers they have to deal with a lot of physical changes.
Hormones can contribute insulin resistance.
In conclusion, Diabetes patients must keep their blood sugar levels in standard to prevent the body from complication which require cooperating from family and patient.
Cervical cancer is dangerous disease for women; during the first stage, symptom of the disease will not be shown and distinctive signs will appear after patients reaching its last stage.
However, for women, if you receive early screening, then you should not worry about it as the screening helps detect some abnormalities in the uterine including female internal organs.
HPV Virus
In most cases, the cervical cancer is caused by the HPV (Human Papillomavirus) Furthermore, there are many strains of HPV.
Two of them, which are 16 and 18, are considered as causes of male and female reproductive organs infection.
Both are importance factors of cervical cancer The HPV viruses will be transmitted by touching through the skin.
Thus, having sex between male and female can contribute the infection; in addition, for females they have a chance of the infection by 80 percent.
Who's at risk for cervical cancer?
People who have sex since a young age as the body has high risk of the HPV virus infection
People who have sex with multiple partners
People who have sex with a partner that has the cervical cancer
Women and men that sleep with a partner who has sexually transmitted infection diseases such as, herpes, gonorrhea and wart.
immunity diseases such as HIV
Warning signs of disease!
Generally, to have an effective result of treatment, patient should receive it during its first stage.
Moreover, key symptoms that make the women decide to go see a doctor is when they have abnormal bleeding in their vagina.
However, these following symptoms should also be considered before the abnormal bleeding:
Bleeding during intercourse
Bleeding after menopause
Vagina discharge leaked out with blood
Abdominal pain
Pain during sex
Abnormal vaginal discharge
Abnormal Menstruation
Fatigue, pale, weight loss and Anorexia
Swelling
Urinary Retention
Cervical Cancer Treatment
If cancer is in the first stage, surgical treatment would be a method that provides the best result, however, if it spreads to every part of the body, radiation will be applied as a treatment together with brachytherapy or by using combination of 2 methods, which are radiation and chemotherapy.
Every procedure requires decision from specialized doctor patients and staff .
HPV-DNA Testing
Screening of cervical cancer by HPV-DNA Testing using Thin Prep Plus Cervista is a detection of cervical cancer cells together including the DNA of HPV strains that associated with the cancer moreover, it includes the screening of HPV 16 and HPV 18 as well.
This method helps identify the risk of latent symptoms and reduce its chance also, helps a doctor provide treatment in time.
Cervical Cancer Prevention
Avoid having sex with many people.
Always use a condom while having sex.
See your doctor as soon as abnormal symptoms such as abnormal vaginal discharge and bleeding after sex are noticed.
Receive a cancer screening regularly especially cervical cancer screening at least once a year
When the children choke up strange object in to the respiratory tract.
They will start coughing, breathing heavily.
The obstruction of breathing based on size and location of the object.
Total obstruction of the respiratory tract often found being stuck by large foreign objects.
The obstruction occurs at the larynx and trachea.
Children will have lips turning green-pale and cough without sound.
Such a condition is considered as dangerous sign requiring immediate help as that can lead patients to death.
Partial obstruction of the respiratory tract.
The children still speak with a voice as well as coughing.
How do You Save The Children?
If the child has Total obstruction of the respiratory tract parents should rush to contact for emergency assistance or an ambulance call for timely help.
If a child is younger than 1 year-old, you need to make the body of a child flip down, lay their whole body on your arms and set the head in lower position compared to your body , then place your both hands around the head areas to move their body forward gently put the arms on the thigh areas using base of the hand tapping on the back blow 5 times.
Keep doing it until the object is out from the mouth.
For children aged older than 1 year-old, make the body of that child lean forward slightly.
Parents need to come help him from the back inserting both arms.
Make a fist then put it on the Xiphoid process put another hand on the fist then compress it up keep doing until the objects are out.
This process called Heimlich maneuver.
During the process be sure not to hurt ribcage as that impacts on other inner organs
In case of unconsciousness you can help them by doing chest compression and breath through the lips of patient.
Partial obstruction of the respiratory tract.
For this case patients should be taken to a hospital.
Do not try to expose foreign matter by fingers.
As this may cause more obstructed position.
Protection
Taking care of the children suffering from choking require accurate first-aid thus, protection is very important especially safe environment for example the type and size of toy that suit your child's age or type and size of food suitable for their age.
Do not feed while they are playing to prevent aspiration oral feed.
The symptoms of "Tonsillitis" are not severe, but, they can disturb your daily life.
Generally, according to the symptoms, people always have high fever, cold, headache, fatigue, anorexia, dysphagia, or some may have stomach pain, vomiting and chronic tonsillitis.
However, this chronic condition requires surgical treatment.
Additionally, as mentioned above it causes the medical technology development, which nowadays has been highly improved.
In fact, this article, the information of Radiofrequency tonsillectomy provided by our experienced surgeon, Dr. DR.UTHAI PARPAMONTOL from Ear, Nose and Throat Center Phyathai3 Hospital is served for you, so that you can get to know and learn more about this treatment technique.
Checklist! Symptoms that require The Surgery
The surgeon explained that the tonsillectomy is a procedure of tonsil removal, which is performed only when patients have the following symptoms:
Chronic tonsillitis (6 times a year, 5 times a year, 2 years straight, 3 times a year or 3 years consecutively).
Abscesses around the tonsil gland.
Suspected of having tonsil cancer.
Enlarged tonsil causing respiratory obstruction or snoring.
The major problems of tonsillectomy are pain and bleeding after surgery causing patients approximately by 2-5% to recover from a hospital for a long time including having dysphagia according to the surgical wound.
Radiofrequency tonsillectomy; innovative tonsil surgery
The doctor added that, this innovation applies the radio waves by the temperature of 45-85 degrees Celsius, the collateral tissues pain then can be decreased while the bleeding during surgery can also be refrained.
This is method is utilized in many medical institutions such as Siriraj Hospital and Chulalongkorn Hospital.
However, the advantages of the technique are as follows:
Short duration of surgery
Low blood loss includes the incidence of postoperative bleeding
Postoperative Pain is decreased
The length of staying in the hospital is decreased (In general it takes about 1 day after surgery)
Tissue Removal and Hemostatic techniques in one by HS
One of treatment options is patient can receive harmonic scalpel (HS), Dr. Uthai described that, the Harmonic Scalpel is an equipment used for stop the bleeding and coagulate the blood vessels by the use of radiofrequency.
A process causes vibration of 55,000 Hz.
which helps refrain the blood from excess bleeding as well as the process can provide cutting of certain tissues in which the equipment is able to reach without damaging or widely burn.
However, the blade or head of this tool can also give dissection, grasping including cut and coagulation.
Moreover, there are sizes of diameters: from a small diameter up to 5mm
The Advantages of HS techniques include:
- The tissue can be cut, while the bleeding is in control.
In fact, during the operation suture is not needed, thus, the surgical process can complete fast, and moreover, throat irritation after surgery is also reduced.
- It takes about 20-30 minutes means that providing anesthesia does not require a long time to proceed, accordingly the cost is inexpensive.
- There is only 0 - 5 cc of Blood Loss while other methods cause about 20-50 cc of the loss during surgery
- Less pain after surgery, especially 3-7 days after the operation.
- Short hospital stay; in general, after the surgery patients have to stay in the hospital for about 1 day after the process, but this process helps them being able to go back to work faster.
Therefore, do not let the tonsillitis become chronic problem that disturbs your life quality includes your loved ones.
Accordingly if there is any disorder, seeking for a doctor to receive a proper consult or treatment is the best solution.
Gastrointestinal diseases always come with symptoms caused by unidentified triggers.
According to that reason, the Gastroenterology Specialists, Dr. Anupong Tangaroonsanti said, the screening by Manometry is a technology that helps diagnose esophageal functions includes muscles used in excretory system with more effective resulting, which means when the screening is directed to the cause of disease by the manimetry, then patients can have a better outcome also get close to their happiness.
Why Manometry?
This tool can check the compression of esophagus well whether it is esophagus compression or esophageal sphincter.
Sometimes patients have dysphagia or chest pain while gastrointestinal endoscopy treatment is unable to detect a cause, accordingly, the screening by Manometry can be an interesting solution as a dysfunction of the esophagus can be seen through the Manimetry, such as an abnormal esophageal digesting or esophageal contraction, etc.
What Manometry can do?
The Manometry can detect all esophageal diseases, such as Achalasia or chest pain which is not caused by heart disease.
However, this group of patients may have severe bronchospasm including the compression with unrelated reasons.
In fact, the chest pain can come from gastric reflux.
This case, a doctor then will send patients to an additional checkup by using 24 hour pH monitoring.
Chronic constipation screening by “Manometry”
When a doctor is unable to detect the cause of symptom and laxatives does not improve the constipation as well.
A screening then will be given to the Ileum includes anal sphincter by the Manometry to see and observe the anal sphincter relaxation during defecation, a process benefits the treatment of chronic constipation caused by improper excretion.
Going through a cause helps patient heal faster
Doctor Anupong added that there is a 40-year-old Arabian man who came to a hospital with dysphagia.
A laparoscopy had been provided to him before, at that time his doctor told that he was diagnosing with GERD.
According to that diagnosis, after a treatment, the dysphagia did not seem to be improved.
Finally, he came back again, this time, the screening was done by Manometry, a result came out with alacasia.
Balloon dilation then was provided to examine the sphincter, however, after the cause was spot, his symptom got better and he could return to normal life again.
Allergens, animal dandruff released from its hair definitely cause allergic reactions for example cat, dog and rabbit or squirrel.
The dandruff might be spread through the air, stick on sofa, bed or sheet when children start to inhale symptom of being allergic would start showing.
In fact, children with allergy have parents with a history of this disease but for those not having a family with allergy by 14 percent may be triggered by the children body due to environmental factor such as pollution.
Common Allergic Symptoms
Common Symptom is allergic rhinitis; a person will feel itchy, having a coughing, sneezing and nasal congestion. The problem is sometime the person may have to open the mouth to breath while sleeping.
The symptom causes more sickness afterward.
However; it may also lead to asthma which result in coughing with mucus and have a sound while breathing requires that person to use breathing spray for asthma.
Besides, feeling allergy around the eyes also appears as well as dermatitis etc.
Mentioned symptoms will only occur only when children are exposed or touched by the animals.
Severity can be relieved by anti-allergy medicine.
Nevertheless, if you r children have severe chronic symptoms, please immediately consult the doctor.
Prevention
Good protection is not having a pet in a house or bedroom at all; putting them outside is the best option also taking a shower for them every week.
In addition, if children go to visit someone’s house like cousin and that place has pet it is possible for the children to have the allergic reaction once again.
“Lyme Disease” Another Disease Caused by Your Petting
Being bit by dog’s tick causing rash or scar on legs and arms is mostly found but what is the most concern for parent is germ in feces of your cats which can lead your child to meningitis after exposing or touching it, so it is best for the kids to keep their hands clean by hand washing every time they play with a pet and never let them put their fingers in the mouth while playing with the animals.
For the tick of dogs and cats today there is medication both for taking, injecting or dropping in your animal to eliminate the amount of ticks.
However, the tick will never be able to grow in human body.
Vaccines Against Dogs and Cats in Children
For vaccines, only rabies vaccine is available.
In general, those who are at risk, such as vet or staff, will be vaccinated by only 3 needles and stimulate it in every 5 years.
On the other hand, for children there will be many vaccines available.
However, most of pediatrician does not recommend vaccinations in the children but it advised to use it when the problem occurs, like being bitten or scratched by animals.
All 5 needles are injected on the first day, day3, day7, day14 and day 28.
It can prevent the children from the disease about 5 years.
The most importantly is watching the wounds with soap about 3-5 minutes before seeking for a doctor and immediately see the doctor within 24 hours.
"Wool Blown into The Lungs” Another Funny Misconception by People
The body has a mechanism to prevent large amount of dust from entering to the lungs.
Therefore, the belief about the fur flying into the lung and get stuck is not real.
However, there is only animal dandruff entering to the nasal cavity or trachea.
How to Live with Pets?
Set a place with more space, avoid having pets in the house or bed room and do not forget to bring your pet to vaccination as well as giving them a shower every week.
Watching hands after playing the pets require for the children and teach them to avoid accidently attacked on the facial area.
Certainly, most of us know "Cancer" and its severity, and recently a type of cancer like Cervical Cancer has become the number one death leading diseases in Thai female including  women around the world, in fact, 7 people a day on the average have died from the disease.
This is a reason why we all must know about Cervical cancer thoroughly
HPV Virus is a cause of  "Cervical cancer"
"Cervical cancer" is not caused by heredity; conversely, a major cause is virus infection.
The study found that by 99.7% of cervical cancer patients have the virus called Human Papillomavirus (HPV), which consists of different types.
However, there are merely about 30 species that cause the infection to the genitals of men and women.
In fact, HPV infection is mostly found in women aged 18-28 years or those who used to have sex, including those who are in between 35-50 years of age depending on the duration of infection.
However, the development approximate takes 10 years to express.
The "cervical cancer" is preventable
Avoid having sex during young age in order to reduce the risk of HPV infection, therefore, this means adolescents are considered being at high risk as the up to date change of intercourse activities.
Focus on cervical cancer screening.
Pap smear is a pelvic examination along with cytology.
A process can be done quickly and easily  used for a screening test in order to detect some abnormalities of cervical cells.
ThinPrep is a cervical cancer screening  which is similar to the Pap smear.
ThinPrep will provide you more detail of the examination than Pap smear.
Doctors often recommend their patients to be examined by this screening.
Receiving vaccine against the cervical cancer is another solution
The discovery of modern science leads to the development of four types-vaccines (6,11,16,18), which reduces the chance of cervical cancer by 70% ,as a result of HPV infection,  the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved that before being infected, this vaccine  can give you 100 percent prevention of  cervical cancer caused by main type of HPV.
Furthermore, it helps protect you from HPV infection by not causing the body cancer; conversely, it causes you genital warts.
However, the vaccine can be given to girls whose age starts from 9.
According to sex value, nowadays is different from the past.
However, apart from having vaccination to prevent cervical cancer, "Cervical cancer screening" is also important.
Women in every age who used to have sex, including those  who have never had intercourse until the age of 30 or older, should also be screened for the cervical cancer every year whereas, when the risk of cervical cancer is detected early, it increases patients the chances of being cured.
Cancer in women is   well-known disease in general, for example, breast cancer or cervical cancer.
In addition, "Ovarian cancer" is also one of the top death diseases related to female genitalia cancer.
“Menstruation” is a risk factor of ovarian cancer
Although, the cause of "Ovarian cancer" is undefined, still one of the factors is Menstruation, whereas, it is considered as stimulus of ovary injury.
According to ovulation in each month, it can create a small wound to the ovary, which later will disappear.
In fact, if the ovulation frequently happens, certainly, it might cause you a risk of the ovarian cancer as   well.
Moreover, those who have reached the menstruation before 12 years of age includes those continue having it until 55 years of age as well as women who have never been pregnant, all are having the risk.
Do you know "Applying talcum powder to the genital causes you ovarian cancer”?
Obstetrician and Gynecologist, Dr. Thanom Sathitid specializing in Gynecologic Cancer has disclosed that  one of the most important factors of this disease is  the use of talcum on female genital area, especially,  mothers  who like to dab the powder  at the whole baby’s body after bath.
When the powder goes through the abdomen cavity is likely to promote the cancer.
Accordingly, Dr. Thanomsiri added   that , for that reason, the mothers should  stop doing it.
Moreover,  having high-fat food is also considered as carcinogenic.
"Abdominal pain" is not gastritis.
Warning signs of latent symptoms that may cause to be  at risk for ovarian cancer are flatulence, abdominal discomfort and  enlarged  stomach, which all could  similar to the symptoms of gastritis.
Mostly patients suspect of the gastritis.
That extends a period of aggression, and in the end, they might reach the last stage, at that same time there will be no chance of cure.
Therefore, what every female should not ignore is an annual internal examination as the ovaries can be detected in early.
Chances of cure and simple process of treatment providing are higher than being treated during the other stages of disease.
What are the processes of “Ovarian Cancer" Diagnosis?
Diagnosing ovarian cancer, Doctors have to provide PV screening includes physical examination thoroughly.
In case of the lumps are found in the adnexa uteri, most of cases require additional examination by ultrasound in order to detect its appearance.
However, if some other organs inside the abdomen cavity are also required to have extra examination, for that reason, X-ray, CT scan and MRI then will be provided.
The faster you detect the ovarian cancer, the more possibilities you have for a cure
After the surgery, most of the patients will stay in a hospital 4-5 days later.
Obstetricians then will cut the uterus, adnexa uteri and ovaries, next is storing the abdominal cavity water, latterly will cut the intestinal fat and makes biopsy of Pelvic Lmyph Nodes and large artery in the abdomen to see where the cancer spreads which may not be seen by the eye.
However, if there is no spread of cancer.
The surgical treatment will be made afterward, in contrast to the spread or worse condition, chemotherapy must be given immediately.
What are the side effects of chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy can cause some side effects such as pallor, infection due to low white blood cells or low platelets.
However, currently, the drug has been developed to reduce some side effects such as, nausea and vomiting.
"Hair Loss" another side effect of chemotherapy
It can be hard to cope with hair loss, especially in female.
The Obstetrician added that after done with the chemotherapy without medication requirement.
This case, the hair can grow back later, however, during a growing process, you can have time to select the best hair design for yourself by wearing wigs, which is good for you to turn this situation with positivity.
"Ovarian cancer" has no obvious cause.
The best prevention is to receive Per Vaginal Examination every year" because during the first stage its symptoms might not be noticed and might be too late for a cure.
In fact, the conception of ignoring screening that you might think it is unnecessary; certainly that is a your big mistake.
Gastro-Esophageal Reflux Disease; GERD is a disease which can be diagnosed and treated based on symptoms.
Additional examination will be performed in case of warning signs or the symptom going against the medicines; Proton pump inhibitors.
According to what mentioned, in this article we have some information and tips of prevention provided by Gastroenterologist, DR.SUPPHAMAT CHIRNAKSORN for you as some symptoms may lead you to serious diseases.
Symptoms of GERD: Not only Heartburn or Pyrosis
Patients who come to see a doctor mostly have these symptoms.
However, there are divided into two groups: The first group is occurred at the area of the esophagus, for example, pyrosis, sour burps or chest pain.
According to the group, heart screening is required before considered every mentioned sign as GERD indication.
On the other hand, another group has all symptoms occur outside the esophagus on account of gastric acid reflux at the cervical part.
It causes respiratory obstruction.
Patients may have chronic cough, asthma, hoarseness including, tooth decay, bad breath, chronic sore throat, chronic sinusitis and chronic inflammatory eardrum.
Dangerous Signs of GERD
Severe dysphagia, weight loss by unknown-causes, constant vomiting and pallor are considered as dangerous signs of GERD.
Patients need to receive or undergo further examinations.
“Can GERD become "Cancer"?
The chance of complications is only 10-15%.
Patients commonly have esophageal inflammation, esophageal- ulcer and achalazia.
When these symptoms go last meaning that a change in the cells of the esophagus may occur, and eventually lead the cells to cancer.
In Asian people, the severe complication or esophageal cancer is found less than 1%, therefore, most of chronic symptoms can only cause you feeling uncomfortable daily with no serious conditions.
"Behavioral Modification"; First alternative of your treatment
Primarily, doctors always suggest all patients to have their behavioral modifications, especially those who love eating too much food or having food with strong tastes, sleeping after having a meal and being overweight.
As mentioned, they are seriously required to have the modification unless whose symptoms cannot be improved, which a medication will be provided including additional examination.
When changing behavior not working….further inspections may require
For further testing, the first thing to do is having endoscopic procedure to recheck a condition as well as to search for any complication.
Those whose causes are detected, doctors then will provide a treatment right after a resulting, while who have no abnormalities after screening will be suspected of having abnormal squeezing or digesting from the esophagus or they may have been suffered from other diseases.
Moreover, in that case, patients will have to receive more screening by manometry including 24 hour-detection or GERD screening for 24 hours.
If you are one who feel very sweaty all the time whether that occurs in your hands, feet or armpits.
This cannot be good.
Letting this condition becomes a barrier to life and affect your personality is not a right option.
Today, in this article, an important information provided by senior surgeon of Phyathai Navamin Hospital POL.MAJ.GEN.Dr. Warin Wachirapunyanukul for those struggling from “Hyperthydrosis” is served below.
The beginning of "sweat"
Our bodies consist of different organs that work together and divide into different processes.
One of them is known as Metabolism.
An important procedure of the body which turn the food we intake to energy.
Later, the body heat would be evaporated in the form of "sweat" to control the heat by an appropriate level.
A cycle can be called as "Sweat Secretion or “Body Heat Transfer”.
Causes of "Hyperhidrosis"
Excessive sweating or Hyperthydrosis is a condition when the body starts to sweat with excess amount even a weather is normal.
There are two types of symptoms which are divided into two categories: primary hyperhydrosis and secondary hyperhydrosis.
Primary Hyperhydrosis This group is characterized by excessive sweating.
There is no exact cause or any complication from the other diseases.
A symptom can occur in both female and male.
However, in this group patients usually intensively sweat in some parts of the body, such as, face, head, armpits and palms.
Moreover, when the body extremely sweats in the palm area, a condition is called sweaty hands.
The primary hyperhydrosis is common disorder happening to young people or adolescence age under 25.
By 30-40% of people are in a family that has this condition as inheritance.
Some patients have a lot of sweat on their hands so they are unable to write or catch their belongings.
The condition causes problems in terms of work, socialization and daily living
Secondary Hyperhydrosis
In this group patients have a sweat even during a sleep.
This is due to the side effects of other diseases, for example:
Thyrotoxaemia, the body has high metabolism.
Tuberculosis; lung disease
Lymphoma
Obesity
During Menopausal
Some medicines
The Requirements of Diagnosis and Target Treatment Plan
In the beginning, a physician has to identify or diagnoses patient’s symptom by observing the sweating to see a level of severity and provide a proper treatment.
For example, patients with secondary symptoms the doctor then will perform other tests to diagnose the cause of these diseases: detecting thyroid function in case of Thyrotoxaemia or cooperating with endocrinologist for patient with obesity.
In addition, the study found that the incidence of primary hyperhidrosis is found in population by 0.6 to 1 percent.
2 options of treatment
In treatment of Hyperhydrosis there are 2 options: Surgical and Non-surgical treatment depending on the doctor's consideration along with patient’s decision which the treatment could be provided by medication, injection or surgery.
Non-surgical treatmentit can be done by a use of aluminum chloride or botulinum toxin injection, however, this treatment is only for palliative care means that a result would not be last.
Thoracoscopic sympathectomy This is only method that can cure patients.
The principle of perspiration has been used in this treatment, which explained about the perspiration that it is caused by sympathetic nervous system of the brain.
In fact, there is a signal sent to different nerves through the sympathetic ganglion, which later would reach the last site where the sweat would be secreted.
As mentioned, a process helps surgeons cut some ganglions that are the signal of sweating.
However, the specific areas like face, hands or armpits would not contain excessive sweating as the sweat gland is unable to receive the signal.
At present, Phayathai Nawamin Hospital has specialists for the treatment of Hyperhidrosis.
One of experienced surgeons specializing in general surgery and endoscopic surgery is POL.MAJ.GEN.Dr.Warin Wachirapunyanukul who have experienced from more than 500 cases with Hyperhidrosis.
“Starting health prevention before diseases come to you” this conception is absolutely correct, but how you can be so sure that this idea could apply to young children as their healths and physical development in each age might not be fully completed.
Accordingly, Bright future health child program could be your solution as we strongly believe that health promotion in young children is vital, which can leads them to a bright future.
The beginning of Bright Future Project
Pediatrician and the medical director of Phyathai Nawamin Hospital, Dr.Sawanan Wacharavanich said that, since January 1st 2017, all children who have been born at Phyathai Nawamin Hospital will automatically experience the project.
This program aims to improve and provide good health in children.
As mentioned, the Pediatric Team has adopted the method and procedure of Bright Future from the United States to the children as well as to blend it with the guidelines of the Royal College Pediatricians of Thailand, include the care of children in a country.
Basic health assessment by Expert Team.
When the children are admitted to the program, they have to receive the health assessment such as height, weight, eating habit, sleeping, developmental habits, and parenting.
The professional nurses who have been trained in this course will provide a doctor these basic information.
The doctor then will examine and ask further questions to make the diagnosis clearer and faster.
Get more deeply information to close the gap
There are also additional examinations such as autism screening, eye examination, dental examination, assessment of developmental areas and blood tests to diagnose anemia.
Moreover,the problems like pale derived from iron deficiency.
The doctor then will decide whether it is necessary to give a supplement or simply adjust them a diet.
However, in case if a child has delayed development includes a risk of autism, care by specialized pediatrician is required.
The doctor later will continue giving patients accurate diagnosis and treatment that directly fix a cause of symptoms.
Not only “Children” but also “Parents” we care
Bright Future Bright Future program does not only provide special care to kids but mothers are also included, for example, health checkup, postpartum depression screening in order to get them ready for parenting as well as giving them advice and problem solving by grouping exchange and individual counseling.
Last but not least
The medical director of Phyathai Nawamin Hospital added "On behalf of doctors, I am certain that we do not want to lost the opportunity to take care of children, so that they can grow up with good health.
Detection and abnormalities screening by us or parents, in case of them knowing or having knowledge of observation such as autism, hearing impairment, vision problem as well as emotional disorders, that can help parents themselves find the abnormality fast, and fast treatment will also be given to the kids by doctors, which the children will have a lot of chances to be cured.
Therefore, parents or caregivers who are close to the child should have the correct knowledge and always observe such symptoms, please do not wait until the doctors appoint you or do not overlook until your children enter to a school and these abnormalities end up being seen by teachers or friends, which it may be too late to solve problems.
Lastly, just so you know that our Bright Future project symbolizes you our concern for those parents who would like to raise their children with good health and quality of living and growing " ”
Good immunity is a foundation of having good health and not easily being infected by diseases or illness, including good development and being in good emotional state.
Accordingly, parents need a good counselor who can provide them the right knowledge.
We are more than ready to take care of you loved one
Pediatrics Center Phyathai Nawamin Hospital has been trusted by many parents and that has initiated us to develop and improve services, which finally results in new aspect.
Treatments will not only be provided when your baby gets sick.
According to our teams, a process does focus on disease prevention as well as risk screening in order to not let healthy kids become ill, for example, full vaccination that is appropriate with their ages, screening for disease or any abnormal condition.
Moreover, physical and emotional development examination is included in order to monitor and give advice to parents.
So when some abnormalities are found, a remedy then will be served to patients quickly by a team of medical specialists, full of medical equipment.
The importance of “Vaccine”
The Doctor has said that vaccination is very necessary for young children whereas the immunity in children still does not work well.
Their bodies cannot resist certain pathogens.
However, a child who is vaccinated inadequately or receives delayed injections, this child may have more risks of diseases.
In fact, although the vaccine does not involve in development areas of children directly, but if they miss a chance to receive that can lead them to health problems including the development in the future.
Best Protection
Doctor Pornnapa Saetung, Pediatric Specialist, at Phayathai Nawamin, who initiated the Bright Future project stated that
Generally, children age 0-15 must be vaccinated according to their immunization schedule of 10 principles regulated by the Ministry of Health.
However, for more comprehensive protection, in the Bright Future program, we have added the appropriate vaccines in each age, such as the Rota vaccine, HIB vaccine to prevent Meningitis including, vaccines that prevent children from chickenpox, flu, and IPD vaccine that protects yourself from pneumococcal infections”
Parents will also receive instruction and guidance for taking care of their children during each age including getting to learn about the behavioral observation these prepare the parents for a child next-age development.
In addition, following a process helps the person who looks after the kids with a way of explaining or describing about disorders to doctors, also it is very helpful in seeing the problem so that pediatricians are able to provide screening better.
As we know that, most of us often overlook symptom of back or spinal pain taking a medicine or adjusting some behaviors to get better are simple treatment.
However, if that is not just a general pain of the back but, spinal diseases.
It may lead to worst condition and become chronic pain.
After receiving diagnosis from doctor it is essential to have the surgical treatment which is currently used for patients called “Minimally Invasive Spine Surgery” or “MISS”
From Open Spine Surgery to Minimally Invasive Spine Surgery
Spinal diseases can be found in different ages such as teens, adult and old people.
In the past, spinal surgery was performed by open operation.
However, today, a medical innovation of spinal surgery has been improved to provides minimal surgical wound with no open procedure called “Minimally Invasive Spine Surgery” Receiving this treatment patient can recover fast also, chance of complications will be lowered, which is better than old procedure.
Why “MISS” provides a better result than open-surgical treatment?
As mentioned, the MISS does not causes large surgical wound after procedure, patient will not suffer from pain, blood loss, complications especially old people also, they can have fast recovery.
Moreover, it can be applied as treatment of spinal diseases such as, Spine Fracture, Herniated disc, Spinal Tumor and Spinal Infection.
Surgery approach for each patient
The MISS can be provided to patients of different ages especially, elderly as this procedure does not harm muscular system as well as other organs.
The MISS provides small surgical wound after procedure and prevents blood loss effects during surgery moreover, it also helps patients recover fast.
Therefore, resting in a hospital for many days is not needed as they can go back home and go back to their regular lives faster.
Signs of Spinal Diseases
Nerves pain (pain around arms, shoulder, legs or hips
Muscular weakness ( Arms, Hands, Legs, Knee and Ankle)
Numbness in various parts of the body such as arms, legs and hands
Abnormal bleeding occurs from every part of the body such as coughing with blood, having blood during defecation.
Symptoms may relate to spinal compression.
Behaviors that reduce the risk of spinal disease
Not sitting in the same posture for a long time due to it can causes muscle weakness
Always exercise to increase muscles around the spine, you should avoid an intensive workout.
Strong muscles and ligament can stabilize and support the spine which prevents you from “Spondylosis”
Avoid being attacked forcefully , jumping or stretching the spine incorrectly
Keep being healthy, eating good foods that rich in calcium to sustains the bones
Regarding body weight standard, you have to control body weight to prevent the spine from carrying heavy body weight.
Excess fat is number one top-cause of "obesity" in Thai people leading to the risk of diabetes, hyperlipidemia, hypertension, cardiovascular diseases, stroke, including some types of cancer such as colon cancer.
Therefore a detection of excess fat is very necessary as it can reduce the risk of many diseases that may occur in the future.
A simple way to check your excess fat ..
BMI Calculation
Check the body weight and height by Weighing Scales and Height Measuring Scales, then calculate the number of both scales to find body mass index or BMI.
The BMI Value of Asians is 25kg/m2 while Europeans is 30 kg/m2, those whose BMI values go over mentioned are considered having “Obesity”
Girth
Start measuring from the midpoint of your waist’s side; between the edge of lower rib and the upper part of hipbone.
Using waist circumference by attaching it to the waist paralleled to the floor.
However, having the result of waist length ≥90 cm in male and ≥80 cm in female, indicate them having the "Obesity"
Intensive Excess-Fat Screening
Fat Mass Analyzing; the screening of Percent of Total body fat, Regional fat mass, such as limbs fat and body fat called subcutaneous fat.
Detection of visceral fat in the abdomen; A value can indicate or assess the risk of coronary heart disease.
The visceral fat is vital as it creates many kinds of biochemical substances that stimulate chronic inflammation, leading to many diseases such as diabetes, high blood pressure and cardiovascular diseases.
Fat distribution pattern screening; In general, the tendency of men’s body always contain accumulated fat in the upper part of their of their bodies, such as torso, neck, shoulders and chest called Android type / Apple.
On the other hand, female body contains the fat in the hip and groin area called the Gynoid type/ Pear-shaped type.
However, scanning by DXA whole body scan will help calculate the ratio of your Android / Gynoid fat ratio or A / G ratio to present yourself on how fat distribution processes.
Lean muscle mass calculation; it is a process of total lean mass and regional lean mass calculation, such as the lean mass of the limbs or trunk.
This analytic process can evaluate Sarcopenia, commonly found in people with obesity, in elderly or those who have chronic diseases like diabetes, renal failure, lung diseases including malnutrition.
Bone Mineral Density (BMD); The analyzing is made on every part of the body except the head.
The Bone Mass Index screening by DXA whole body scan is now very beneficial in pediatric patients.
For adults, the bone mass index is always detected at the lower back (Lumbar spine) including left femoral bone (bone) as a process gives more accurate resulting than other methods according to many researches and studies.
Normally, the diagnosis of "Chronic gastroesophageal reflux " always utilizes endoscopic inspection.
However, the endoscopy may not be able to detect some abnormalities in certain cases.
Accordingly, Manometry can be another alternative for intensive chronic gastroesophageal reflux screening.
Intensive "Gastroesophageal reflux” screening...by advanced modern tools
The endoscopic examination sometimes cannot find the cause of symptoms.
Doctors then will provide 24 hours pH monitoring to the esophagus in order to measure and examine the level of reflux.
However, this method is approved under a standard.
In addition, during a procedure doctor will insert a diagnostic tool or small tube into the nose while the pH monitoring is also be monitored.
Patients need to take the monitoring machine with themselves for 24 hours to check the reflux level, also it helps prevent them in case if some severe symptoms occur so that they can be sent to a surgery in time.
The PH monitoring requires the use of a gastric compressor or manometry to find the location of the esophageal sphincter and to be placed in the most precise position including to evaluate the compression of the esophagus as well.
Facts about Manometry
Patients must stop drinking water and taking medication that interferes with the compression of the esophagus before nasogastric intubation.
A doctor will provide anesthesia before the intubation.
It only takes a few minutes when the patients give well cooperation.
When a small tube is inserted to the stomach, it can be see from a display during a procedure.
According to a procedure, when the end part of the tube reaches inside the stomach, the doctor then will order patients to swallow water 10 times to see how the esophagus and sphincter process their compressions.
Each swallowing must have enough quality in order to observe the organ function clearly.
Tube intubation for Manometry has no side effects and complications.
There may be a slight irritation of the nose such as, bleeding or mucus but not in severe condition like organs penetration.
The treatment takes about 45 minutes if the patient cooperates with the doctor well.
Phyathai 2 Hospital we are ready to treat all patients with Gastroesophageal Reflux Screening diseases.
The precise diagnoses as well as various treatment options are served by a team of medical personnel including advanced modern medical technology.
Accordingly, let us help you stop the reflux .
before it becomes your chronic problem.
At the present, many countries with high advanced medical technology, such as the United States of America, England, as well as India, Bangladesh and European countries, have been innovated and build us “Modern Tonsillectomy” by using Co2 Laser machine.
However, this is made to treat patients with tonsillitis and according to a process, some of good tonsil issues may require storage.
In fact, today the information about this new Tonsillectomy is served as below by our medical director of Ear Nose Throat Clinic, DR.SARANCHAI KIATSURAYANON from Phyathai 3 Hospital,
Tonsil gland and stem cells
The Dr. has explained that tonsil is one of the organs inside human body.
It functions the immune system.
According to the modern medical science, the tonsils have the large numbers of stem cells.
In fact, the quality of them is higher than Stem Cell from bone-marrow and also easier to be used.
That is a reason why they should not be cut during a treatment process unless a condition harms the patients, for example, diagnosing with cancer, or having tonsil infection which cannot be treated, however, this case happens by more than 1 to 2% of tonsil diseases.
What is Co2 Laser Technique?
This technique has various processes depends on the cause of diseases, for example, a cause of bad breath like Tonsil stones, which is treated by Co2 Laser Cryptolysis, but in case of Recurrent Tonsillitis, Co2 Laser Resurfacing will be applied for a treatment instead.
Moreover, if the tonsils have severe pathological stage, Co2 Laser intracapsular Tonsillectomy then will be used in order to remove almost 95 percent every single one of the infected Tonsil and keep certain 5 percent good tissues by Co2 Laser intracapsular Tonsillectomy
21st century Surgical techniques
certain organs are reserved.
Harmless small surgical wound and fast recovery are provided.
During surgery, injuries and blood loss slightly happen
The Advantages of using Co2 laser in tonsil surgery
Using Topical and Local Anesthesia
Tonsil gland is not removed
Having 0-5 cc.
of blood loss, while the Traditional Tonsillectomy giving 50-150 cc. of the blood loss.
According to a static, postoperative hemorrhage can occur by 2-5% , which is at the same level with traditional Tonsillectomy.
However, referring to phyathai3 Hospital static found that the 0.5 percent postoperative hemorrhage happened after receiving the surgery about 24 hours or 2 weeks which an amount of blood loss is lesser than an general operation.
Patients do not have to stay in a hospital.
This can be done safely in the OPD patient's room and they are able to go back home after completion.
After the surgery, patients only have small pain also recover from a condition quickly include return to work within 1-2 days.
On the other hand, for the traditional treatment, patients who have to stay in hospital for 2 to 3 days, and the pain can be very intensive while the recovery may take about 1-2 weeks.
Erectile dysfunction occurs in male, and it is difficult for female to understand.
However, this issue can diminish a confident of your husband, sometimes may cause a family problem as well.
Accordingly, today we have some key information about mentioned topic given by DR.WIROJ RUKSAKUL from Urology Clinic, Phyathai3 Hospital
What is Erectile dysfunction?
“The ED/Erectile dysfunction is a condition in which the male genital is unable to erect during an intercourse.
A symptom happens individually.
Some are able to keep the erection for a long time, conversely some barely make it.
However,such symptom is commonly found in the male elders, which also be detected in young people from all ages” said the doctor.
Causes of malfunction
There are two main reasons of male sexual dysfunction.
The first factor is physical body and second is mental state:
BODY: As mentioned above, this case is often found in the elderly as age causes the body deterioration which is affected by various triggers, for example:
Chronic diseases: hypertension, diabetes, heart disease and hyperlipidemia, which all cause blood vessel abnormality.
That is a reason why the blood is unable to spread to different parts of the body fully; this includes the genital as well.
Decreased testosterone levels::both physical and mental state including socializing can be affected by the decreased testosterone levels.
However, men with this issue are always moody, inactive, sluggish, low sexual desire, delayed erection and pessimistic.
Neurological Disorders: erectile dysfunction caused by blood flow that plays a role of supplying the blood to genital tissues.
In fact, this disorder of sexual arousal causes signal sent by the brain to genital nerve incompletion.
Drug use: Some medications causes erectile dysfunction
Psychological aspectit is caused by mental disorders such as depression, stress, anxiety, etc.
How the treatment is provided?
Doctors need to ask patients about medical record or profile also provide them some blood tests, for example, blood sugar screening, lipid blood tests, the liver and kidney functional screening, including testosterone levels.
When the doctors done with diagnoses for the cause, oral medication will be served together with the use of other medical equipment, such as, Vacuum Pump.
However, if this method still cannot heal the patients, then injection must be used along with different methods at the same time.
How to Improve Their Writing Skills?
Let your children do some activities that require hand moving.
Some parents will not let their kids picking up things by hand as they think kids might take a toy to put in their mouth such including not allowing them to grab a fork for eating as well as brushing teeth and finger paint or unpacking candy package etc.
When children turn around 4-5 , they would start using various writing devices for example using pencil to draw pictures or write.
Parents should help motivate them to feel enjoyable with the activity not specifically tell them where the drawing should start so that they could be more creative and relaxed during learning process.
Parents have to respond to what the children really need for example, when children do not understand doing something parents must send positive reinforcement to children by motivating them with complimenting or inspiring to make them accomplish the activities and want to do it again next time.
What Benefits Children from Writing
Writing improves both side of brain's ability so that they can function and work coherently.
In addition, eyes and hand correlation will be increased constantly which include activities for example, throwing a ball back and forth, riding a bicycle and kicking a ball.
According to that, kids have more patients and be able to write and paint things longer.
For older children, writing improves the comprehension of vocabulary which relate to diary or short story
To make children become creative thinker filled of new ideas writing is a key to let them build up confidence including writing potentials using different form.
Development of Muscles(Gross Motor Skills)
The development of child muscle comes in different forms based on age and ability for example during their 5-7 months old a child should know how to sit.
Observing the child's behavior in various ways parents should have a database or guideline of the developmental capabilities in hand as it is easy to observe the ability of the child whether something is wrong with them or not.
The capacity starts from body movement neck, hands, posture,jumping and so on.
In addition, when a child knows how to sit, teaching them to change a posture from standing to anything else like crawling from one spot to another to grab a toy.
When the children aged over 5.
There will be more movement in their body.
The relation in organ function and movement would be more conjoint for example jumping, kicking a ball, cycling these are functions of the body that involve both arms and legs.
Development of Small Muscles (Fine Motor Skills)
For the Fine Motor Skills, parts of the muscles parents should focus on are hands,eyes, lips like, teaching the to grab an object from the floor or grabbing object tight and release, playing a wood-block building, molding plasticine, cutting paper using scissor, feeding themselves food using spoon and fork, brushing teeth, drawing or painting etc.
The lips muscles observed by looking at how the lips is closed and opened or how the saliva flows as well as different directions of tongue moving.
If there is an abnormality, it may affect communication skills of children in the future as the muscles around the lips support a child's voice.
Next is eye muscles, while a child is looking through object or something too long that can help parents detect some disorders such as autistic.
Kids with this condition might not look at people’s face during interaction.
However, in order to observe behavior including paying attention to improve their development parents should have information about their development in each age .
Moreover, the effective way of letting them play is parents must come help only when thing is hard for a child to understand.
Furthermore,creating good atmosphere that supports the activity is recommended as this contribute to bonding between kids and parents including developing learning skills in both of them.
If you are unsure or have any question please contact a doctor or therapist for more information so that your child can receive accurate screening as well as evaluating to improve capability of him or her properly.
Although it seems that everyone are scared of cancer as it is one of the top disease leading to death, most of us still overlook about health and eating habit which may cause colon cancer.
Therefore, to stay away from serious illness, receiving a screening early especially the screening for colorectal cancer by colonoscopy is the best solution.
It can increase a chance to survive and get treatment in time.
Getting to know the intestine and different parts
Small intestine
Digest food by making it smaller until the body can absorb, such as digesting protein and changes it to amino acids, or digesting fat to glycerol or digesting rice into glucose.
Colon
absorbs water and minerals back into the bloodstream.
Some indigestible part will be moved to the rectum above the anus waiting for excretion.
Are you at RISK?
The cause of colon cancer has been unidentified.
However, the statistics show that the disease occurs to this group of people:
People who consume red meat and foods that are rich in fat.
People who smoke and drink alcohol
People with chronic inflammatory bowel disease
People age over 50
Family has a history of colon cancer
Having these symptoms, you are required to see a doctor
The common symptoms are chronic abdominal pain, chronic bloating, blood or black stool, abnormal weight loss, fatigue, lumps inside the abdomen, constipation and diarrhea.
Accordingly, if you are one of those who are at risk and have the following symptoms then, immediately see a doctor to receive a colon cancer screening in time.
Moreover, these are methods of the screenings:
Blood screening
Blood test in the stool.
Gastrointestinal endoscopy
Diagnostic radiology
How to avoid colon cancer triggers?
Avoid high fat foods.
Have more fruits and vegetables
Exercise to avoid obesity
At the age of 50, a person should receive the screening
Receive “Occult blood” every year.
Receive the colonoscopy every 3-5 years
Although "colon cancer" is the third most common cancer happened in Thailand, the death can be reduced by “early detection”.
According to modern technology and its safety, GI endoscopy and endoscopy can change the image of this disease to something that we do not need to feel fear about it.
What is Colonoscopy?
Colonoscopy is an effective way to evaluate problems and disorders in the colon using colonoscopy.
A process comprises of small flexible tube set with a camera and light at the end to present clear images during operation.
Moreover, this allows the doctor to see internal pathology clearly as well as providing treatment to patients in different areas precisely.
The Benefits of Colonoscopy
To find the cause and treat the bleeding
To find the cause of disorders from feces/stool such as chronic constipation, chronic diarrhea, blood in stool, flatulence, polyp, pale and fatigue.
To detect colorectal cancer and treat non-cancerous tumors (polyps) that grow in the colon wall.
Preparation Stage
2 days before procedure, patients must abstain from food that contains fiber including fruits and vegetables.
Take prescribed medication to support bowel movements.
Prepare details about your history of drug allergy, chronic disease, chemical exposure, medicine including history of treatment and surgery.
Study the Colonoscopy’s procedure
For the colonoscopy, the doctor will provide injection to make the patient feel relaxed and sleep.
After that, the camera will go into the anus and gradually move into the colon and rectum.
Upper GI endoscopy needs to be provided to the esophagus, stomach and duodenum.
The doctor will spray the anesthetic to the neck while patient needs to lie on the side to let the doctor insert the camera to the mouth.
However, for gastrointestinal endoscopy, it help assessing dysphagia symptom, abdominal pain, bleeding in the abdominal cavity as well as gastric ulcer.
When the patients leave the examination room, they require 2 hours to rest until sleeping pills become ineffective.
Moreover, after the procedure, patient may have abdominal discomfort or anal pain so they need to avoid driving.
As mentioned, while meeting the doctor according to appointment, they need to bring relative or family with them as well.
Lastly, if symptoms such as blood in stool or severe abdominal pain are found, meeting the doctor before the appointment should be done immediately.
As "cancer" is a serious disease when you can notice it in early stages, it means that the symptoms then can be cured.
The colonoscopy is a way to help doctor see the whole clear picture of the problem happened to the colon clearly.
Therefore, If any abnormality occurs, you should go see the doctor in order to be diagnosed for the cause and doctors can plan for further treatment alternatives.
According to the statistic, over 152 million men worldwide suffer from erectile dysfunction.
This problem is caused by several causes.
In general, testosterone begins to decline by the age of 30 and gradually decrease until obviously be seen by around the age of 50.
Before retirement age you may face with this problem
According to age deterioration, it is one of sexual dysfunction triggers in men, however, apart from that these following behaviors on list are also considered as risk factors:
Hard working, less rest
Anxiety and stress
Drinking alcohol or smoking regularly
Having chronic disease, such as diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, liver disease, kidney disease or heart diseases etc.
Lack of exercise
Inheritance
Having food with excess amount of these ingredients, such as soybeans, oysters, coffee, soft drinks, canned food, fast food, artificial sweeteners, etc.
Taking certain medications, such as sleeping pills, antidepressants.
Having prostate surgery or spinal cord injury
Having Multiple Sclerosis (MS); a chronic disease of the central nervous system causing the body weakness.
Therefore, avoid risky behaviors helps reduces the chance of sexual dysfunction or erectile dysfunction.
Another thing which you should not be overlooked is receiving physical examination by a doctor regularly to prevent yourself from other health problems.
Ovarian cancer is mostly found as the top of female genital disease.
it is classified as a latent danger whereas the disease has the highest risk of death.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), in 2008, cancer was the leading cause of death by 13% worldwide.
In Thailand, the ovarian cancer is the sixth disease of Gynecologist cancers.
The incidence of it is about 6.8 people over 100,000 a year.
However, in this article the Gynecologist specializing in Gynecologic cancer, at Phyathai Sriracha Hospital DR.KORAPIN RUDTANASUDJATUM, has provided us a key information as follows
Cause and Severity of “Ovarian Cancer”?
Ovarian cancer is caused by cell growth disorder.
The abnormal cells locate next to the ovary.
At the same time when the body is unable to handle, then the cells would eventually pile up themselves as a lump, which later are spreaded to other organs.
Currently, the cancer has become the second disease of female genital cancer, which is interior to cervical cancer.
However, the disease is mostly found in patients aged of 40-60.
Young children and adolescents are also at risk.
In addition, the causes of ovarian cancer is still unknown, for that reason, these are some risk factors of the disease:
Infertility
Fast menstruation or delayed menopause.
Latent symptoms of ovarian cancer and differences of each stage
Ovarian cancer has four stages.
The symptoms of ovarian cancer include distension, abdominal pain, enlarged stomach observed by touching on the lower abdomen.
Moreover, other symptoms might happen, for example, weight loss, anorexia, excess water in the stomach, frequent urination, and obstructed defecation deriving from the lump compression on the bladder and the bowel.
In fact, some patients might not experience these symptoms, instead the disease might be caught after annual physical examination.
Finally , in the last stage means cancer is already spread to other organs.
Abnormal organ function might be shown, such as, breathing difficulty by the lungs, and if it is spread to the liver, that could result in severe liver enlargement or function value abnormality.
Besides, the diagnosis in any stage depends on the patient's symptoms.
In fact, physical additional examination like blood tests, X-rays or Computer X-rays along with surgery, all can be used to state each stage of the cancer clearly.
They can affect patients by guiding the way of further treatment.
How the ovarian cancer is treated?
Ovarian cancer treatment is based on types of cancer, stage, age of patient and demand for having a child.
Accordingly, the main focus of the treatment is surgery: the uterus and ovaries removal, also lymph node cut on the abdominal cavity.
However, for young patients having the first stage of cancer, to provide ovary removal on one side and still keep the another normal uterus and ovary on the opposite side is one of solutions.
In addition, there are additional treatment such as Chemotherapy in case of having indication.
Lastly, for radiation, this method is rarely used as the treatment of ovarian cancer nowadays.
The Prevention of Ovarian Cancer.
How worth it is?
The use of contraceptives more than five years can reduce the risk of ovarian cancer by 50%, while having one child can also reduce the risk by 60%.
However, for those of which a family member has ovarian cancer, breast cancer, gastric cancer, or cervical cancer should consult a doctor to assess the risk of ovarian cancer and for the benefit of further treatment guidelines.
The problem for having a baby is prevalent in married couples.
However, if compares to many years ago, it shows increasing numbers of couple with this problem. Lifestyle and economy come to take a role, for that reason people take longer time to be married and have a baby.
Accordingly when the problem happens, the best solution could be seeking for accurate screening by specialized doctor for a right treatment plan that solves the fertility condition in the couple.
What is The Key Sign of The Fertility?
Having this difficulty means the spouse might have sex quite frequently around 3-4 times a week within a year and then it turns out couple still have no baby.
Moreover, either one of them have these contributor factors, for example, abnormal menstruation or genital injury.
The couple is suggested to receive consultation by doctor and there is no need to wait until 1 year complete.
In addition, woman aged over 35 is also included.
Actually, 60 percent of the fertility cause mostly comes from a woman while 40 percent comes from male.
The Fertility Caused by "Men"
The fertility has different factors which could be genetic, low amount of sperm, body movement or medication, for instance, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, bad drug, smoking, drinking or chronic diseases: diabetes, thyroid, endocrine disease and injury occurred in genital area.
The Fertility Caused by "Woman"
Woman with the difficulty faces the similar problems with men and merely has higher possibility of it due to age increased, abnormal menstruation as well as genital or problem with endometrium, pelvic inflammation, fascia, and tumor etc.
Apart from age, there are more factors that create the symptoms like, cyst or endometriosis and another factor is infectious disease such as Chlamydia that obstructs the oviduct when it happens the sperm then is unable to fertilize.
Moreover, stress and less sleep or sex also create the problem including the suitable time for ovariation.
When It is Time to See a Doctor?
Fistly, doctor will ask patients about the history of physical condition and screen both, internally and externally such as semen examination, ultrasound and hysterosalpingography.
After that, the laboratory will be made for detecting the cause as well as advantaged medical technology will be utilized for a treatment.
Technology That Treat "Fertility"
When the cause and solution to the problem is not effective, then will consider the appropriate method of pregnancy.
The main factors are the success rate, cost, complication, minimal pain.
The technology used to help pregnant women have several ways.
Intrauterine Insemination (IUI) is the ideal solution for men with sperm problems while a woman is healthy.
Procedure is made by stimulating the egg and sperm.
Selected sperm will be injected into the uterus
Gamete Intrafallopian Transfer (GIFT) is a traditional method but cannot be applied effectively.
the process is to stimulate the ovaries with hormones then camera will be put through the stomach to collect eggs and mix them with sperm.
Later it will be injected back to oviduct through the abdomen to achieve the fertilization.
Zygote Intrafallopian Transfer (ZIFT) is a very popular method for people facing the fertility.
For those with pelvic fascia, fallopian tube obstruction or abnormal ovulation, low amount of sperm.
Process done by ovarian stimulation, collecting eggs to mix with sperm in the laboratory then grow embryo for around 3-5 days later return the embryo into the uterus.
Intracytoplasmic Sperm Infection (ICSI) is one of in-vitro-fertilization’s step but the difference is that the best sperm will be selected for injection to the uterus.
Growing the baby embryo takes about 3 to 5 days before the injection.
The problem of the fertility depends on different factors in each couple.
Therefore, receiving the screeninging in early is the best solution.
Everytime, woman has many difficulties to keep themselves looking fabulous, apart from that external beauty.
Another important thing that all females cannot overlook is health condition, especially to check up “ the breast” regularly as some abnormalities might occur to the organ and eventually lead them to breast cancer.
Accordingly, here is the list of breast self-exam for all women.
When do we need Breast Screening?
After 7-10 days, by counting it on the the first day of menstrual period
Regularly check it every month
After menstruation, always check it up on the same day every month
Here is 6 ways for your "Breast Self-Exam”
Stand in front of mirror and look at both sides of your breast, observe the size, shape, skin color includes nipple position, then compare a change of your breast to last month.
After that, lift your two arms over your head and look at the breast again.
Slowly turn your body to see the side of the breast.
Hands on the waist and slightly lean the body forward to observe the changes once again.
Use your fingers to gently squeeze the nipples in order to see if there is blood or mucus flowing out of the nipples.
Start touching your breast from the collarbone, use the left hand for groping on the right breast.
Press your 3 fingers: index ,middle, and ring on the skin gently, and gradually increase an intensity of pressing until you can feel the ribs, however, do a groping on the breast in every direction.
It can be done differently.
The important is keep doing it all the way to the armpit including the area under armpit, then repeat it again on the other side.
When you are done standing, change to a sleep posture in order to provide that same self-exam, put a pillow under the shoulder in which the exam will be started.
Once found disorders immediately go to see the doctor
Have a lump on the breast or under the armpits
Have blood or pus flow out of the nipples.
Be sore or pain on the breast
Have a thick lump inside the breast
Therefore, you should notice abnormalities regularly, in case of they are being found, go see a doctor immediately in order to seek for the cause and have a treatment in time.
Many women overlook the annual check-ups or screening for various diseases because their misinterpretation about themselves having healthy body or strong already.
In fact, that can cause the risk of many diseases, especially "cervical cancer"
Cervical cancer is one of the few cancers which the cause is found connecting to the HPV infection.
It is contacted directly through having sex, which is a major factor of death in Thai women.
Moreover, living habit or lifestyle is also an important contributor to the cervical cancer.
The following are trigger behaviors you have to be aware of..
8 Risk Behaviors keep you close to Cervical cancer
Having Human papilloma virus (HPV) infection in the cervix area
Sleeping with many partners, which cause you twofold of risk comparing to sleeping with only one partner.
Moreover, in case of more than 6 partners, the risk is three times higher.
Having sexually transmitted diseases in the past, such as herpes and gonorrhea.
Having cancer or endometrial hyperplasia at the vagina or another external genital organ in the past.
Having sex since young age
Having a first child at the age of 20 including having multiple children.
The study found that the risk of cervical cancer is increased with the duration of oral contraceptives.
Smoking or smoke exposure
The Best Prevention is ….
The best way to prevent yourself from the cervical cancer is avoiding having sex, as 99% of the HPV infection channels come from intercourse.
In fact, it is difficult, so what we can do is to receive vaccination and cervical cancer screening annually.
Your health should not be overlooked, so do not let the ignoring ruin it.
To take care of yourself is not only referred to physical condition but also referred internal system of the body.
Women especially when being reached to the older age, have more risks of various diseases, for instance, breast cancer, cervical cancer and "Ovarian cancer"
Ovarian Cancer; One of the top gynecologic cancer diseases
The ovarian cancer is a female genital disease that causes the highest risk of death.
We can find the “Ovarian cancer" from women in different ages, whether during their young ages or reproductive ages.
In fact, the disease is mostly be found in females aged during the 40-60 years.
Moreover, this cancer is caused by the growth of cancer cells in the ovaries and the important role of the organs is that they are the major organs which responds for eggs and hormones productions.
Who is the TARGET??
Certainly, this disease can only happen in females.
People who are at risk are those who have irregular or frequent ovulation, meaning that there is the wound which would occur repeatedly after the ovulation.
This can lead a person to the risk of the disease.
Moreover, people of which families have a history of cancer, whether breast cancer, ovarian cancer, or cervical cancer, the inheritance can also contribute you to the ovarian cancer as well.
Risk symptoms
For ovarian cancer, the early stages might not be obvious, however, if these following symptoms are presented, consult your healthcare professionist for further diagnosis:
Feeling uncomfortable in the abdomen
Indigestion, nausea, flatulence
Abnormal bleeding from the vagina
Defecation disorders
Weight gain or loss for unknown reasons.
Prevention?
The simplest way to protect yourself is to exercise regularly, and have good foods that are beneficial to the body such as fruits and vegetables everyday.
In fact, do not forget to receive annual health check-up as the checkup gives you pelvic examination includes ultrasound that help searching for some abnormalities.
It starts from the beginning of disorders as well as it shows you the cells that will develop to the cancer in the future.
However, we should always be aware of the body changes, in case of a disorder being found, please see your doctor for further detection.
Mentioning about "Cervical Cancer", many people see it as unnecessary thing and might think it would not happen to them.
However, they should know that cervical cancer has already been on the top of all cancers found in Thai women.
According to at first, symptoms are unseen and it could be late when the disease is detected during the end stage.
In this article, you will be provided the lists of some major signs from this disease.
HPV virus; a cause of cervical cancer
The cause of cervical cancer is various starting from chemicals that cause chronic irritation to what cause cell injury.
In fact, the main cause of cervical cancer is Human Papilloma Virus while the vital channel of HPV infection is caused by sex.
No warning signs ... once notice, it is too late
HPV is contacted directly by sex, after it gets into the body.
Latent period can take about 10-15 years, then 30-60 years later the symptoms would be expressed clearly.
However, in case of these following symptoms happen, you should go see a doctor immediately.
Have a slight vaginal bleeding happen after sex or irregular bleeding during menstruation.
Take longer period for menstruation than usual
Have Anorexia, weight loss
Have fluid in the vagina or vaginal discharge like water or thick mucus with blood or pus.
However, it either smells bad or does not smell at all.
Have blood in urine and feces (Found in case of disease has spreads to the bladder and rectum)
In cases when the cancer grows larger, it might cause you lower abdominal pain, urinary incontinence or obstructed defecation as well as feeling a compression at the kidney, which that might cause you renal failure after.
Have swollen legs, which means cervical cancer has already spread to the lymph nodes.
Even the initial symptoms of cervical cancer are not shown, anyone has these mentioned symptoms, you should go see a doctor to find out what the cause really is as “the faster you receive a screening the more chances of cure you have”.
Also, do not forget to receive a health checkup including pelvic examination every year for cervical cancer detection.
After the incidence of dust covering all over Bangkok, many people are concerned about the physical effect.
Preventing yourself from air pollution is not as hard as you think.
This is the suggestion from our specialist so that you can be able to handle this “dust in the city” situation better!
Where does the smoke or dust come from? / What are they? How do they affect our body?
In general, the pollution in Bangkok Metropolitan Region mostly comes from vehicles; consequently, a large number of cars have been increasing every day.
Regarding a recent situation, pollution causes weather in the region change since the wind stop ventilating as usual.
For that reason, the dust and smoke start to accumulate in the air little by little.
How is it harmful to our body or lungs?
The pollution can harm the body bases on these following factors:
When the pollution has been accumulated in large amount.
When the accumulating considered extremely long: recently, this incidence has been occurring in Bangkok periodically; even it happens in short period, this situation can affect certain groups of people such as those who have allergy or asthma together with several symptoms such as coughing from inhaling the pollution.
Moreover, those with congenital diseases like heart disease, emphysema, or asthma, are also affected by a circumstance.
Regarding aforementioned symptoms, all is stimulated by allergens called polluted smoke and dust.
Both are reasons of exhausted feeling.
Furthermore, the allergens can contribute severe condition of the existing diseases as well.
What is the proper prevention? / How to handle the pollution?
For prevention, in order to solve a problem apart from knowing the source of the exhaust (pollution), self-prevention is also important.
During the situation, you should avoid being in the area where the pollution is, for instance, traffic.
You should also stop going outside for exercising around the area as well as having an action or activities that make you inhale the smoke.
Furthermore, wearing a mask can filter large amount of the dust, however, small Air-Borne would still enter into the lungs.
Does wearing a mask help prevent us from pollution well?
There are many types of medical face masks such as a full-face mask that refrains the air from passing through nose directly, considered better than every type.
However, it has disadvantage since it could make you feel tired while doing daily activities.
However, a common medical face mask people often use is either made of fabric or paper, which is available everywhere for purchasing.
Furthermore, the correct way of wearing the mask is to make sure it covers the top and the bottom area of your face because when you inhale, the air would be able to pass through a filter before getting into the nose.
However, if it enters aside including from the back and above your nose level, meaning the filter may not prevent the air from entering well.
For that reason, you must optimize the mask firmly while wearing it to ensure it does not pass through some other areas but, facial mask filter only.
How to take care of yourself for those with chronic disease
For those with heart disease, emphysema, asthma, or allergy, there is possibility of improving more severity in existing disease’s symptoms.
Thus, it is necessary to people with such conditions to avoid being exposed by the smoke and dust.
However, if you really have to go outside, please spend your time less and stop an action that requires high energy from the body such as, exercise because while you are breathing, it can bring dust or pollution into your body.
In addition, following updated news regarding the pollution constantly is recommended as it gives more information about places that should not be visited including the areas where the pollutions has more impurity increased.
Signs from inhaling so much pollution that require you check-up by a doctor
Those exposed by the pollution especially people with allergy, often have common symptoms appear such as coughing.
However, it disappears when you escape from an area.
Beside, for patients with heart disease, asthma and Pulmonary Emphysema symptoms such as heavy breathing could still continue affecting after resting or leaving the area, this sign we recommend you to go see a doctor immediately.
If this case happens again in the future and takes a longer period of time, what will be the effect to us?
In order for this case to affect the health, the smoke dust must be at a high level for a long time, days, or weeks, which can cause a greater number of patients and the use of more medication for coughing.
Doctor’s suggestions when facing pollution in the air
Everyone should understand that we face this problem periodically, but not often in the circumstance that the air is not ventilated.
Do not be over panic; this is a normal thing that can happen to us.
For people who have no chronic diseases may not have special concern in this case.
People that should have more caution than others are those with allergies, asthma, ischemic heart disease, emphysema, and children.
They need to stay away from the pollution areas such as going home and avoid staying around the area or staying in a building could also make them save.
However, if there are some abnormal symptoms appear after exposed by the smoke for a while, please consult a doctor immediately.
How to observe the abnormal symptoms that require you to see a doctor?
If you cough after leaving an area and then it gradually decreases within 24 hours,that should not be a problem.
On the other hand, if the symptoms still go on, seeing a doctor is recommended.
Moreover, asthma patients who already use inhale spray but heavy inhaling seems to not be improved, seeing a doctor is a must at the same time for those with heart disease that impacted by a situation with chest pain and heavy breathing.
However, after taking medicine, symptoms are still not relieved, this case, patients are required to reach a doctor before 24 hours immediately.
Stroke is the top death caused disease next from heart disease and cancer.
All types of stroke mostly are caused by infarction or by 75% on average.
For those having the Thrombosis as a cause is about 15-30% while by 14-40% has atherosclerosis as the cause.
Secondary reason is intracerebral hemorrhage around 11% apart from that there is 5% subarachnoid hemorrhage as the cause.
Transcranial Doppler Ultrasound (TCD)
To screen the cerebral arteries located below base of the brain inside the skull using high frequency around the temporal bones requires 2 megahertz of frequency detector.
It helps measure the acceleration of blood flow including its direction which tells the exact location.
Benefits of Transcranial Doppler Ultrasound
Access to Occlusion and Stenosis Condition (Stenosis, Occlusion)
Measure the blood flow( the cerebral circulation) especially after the stenosis.
Follow results from diagnosis of certain conditions such as vasospasm or high pressure in the skull.
Provide Detection of patent foramen ovale (cerebral microembolism in right to left cardiac shunts)
Provide Autoregulation Screening which observes the vascular reactivity after the carbon dioxide levels changed in blood.
Symptoms of Stroke
Motor weakness, partial paralysis
Speech slurred, unable to understand conversation
One eye cannot see things along with blurred vision
Feeling dizzy with unstable walk along with nausea or loss of consciousness
In some cases, these symptoms may occur temporarily like 30 minutes, which can make them overlook.
The temporary symptom called TIA (Transient ischemic attack) A study found that one-ninth of stroke patients having such a symptom could have permanent stroke within 90 days.
Half numbers of the patients found having it in the first 2 days after warning sign.
Thus, receiving screening for the best diagnosis and prevention is very essential.
Appendicitis seems to be a general disease most people are familiar with.
Only receiving a surgery whenever symptoms occur is not the solution.
The time is also matter since if they cannot receive a treatment in time, it can cause them a chance of death.
Therefore, as soon as noticing or having stomachache by unknown causes, please promptly seek for proper diagnosis from a doctor.
Moreover, a patient can observe the symptoms and compare them to a sign of the appendicitis, for that reason, these are the list of its severity and development.
Symptoms of appendicitis
In general, symptoms of the disease include a level of severity as follows:
Abdominal pain, without knowing the exact areas of pain, this stage you are not allowed to take any type of painkillers, whereas it will make symptoms more difficult to be seen.
Constant pain which may go up to 6 hours.
The episodic pain can twist around the navel.
The abdominal pain symptom is similar to diarrhea, low fever, nausea, vomiting and anorexia.
The pain then will spread to the right lower abdomen.
Some may have left lower abdominal pain depending on appendix direction and where it is ​​pointed; accordingly, when the appendix tip points its direction to the neck, back or ribs.
The pain then will locate to that area.
The pain occurs while moving, coughing or sneezing.
Pressing on the stomach or the areas can cause patients more severe pain.
Some may need to lay the body in bed and still a posture during the pain as it can spread and make the patients more suffering.
In case, when patients are on the way to see a doctor, the pain can be relieved by on side posture with the legs bent, at the same time forwarding your body while walking can be done as well.
However, if the appendicitis starts to become severe, infection, pus with decomposition and penetration may occur after.
Therefore, it is very important to receive the treatment in time before the expression of severe inflammation as there is a chance of the serious infections including complications.
Treat Appendicitis with Minimally Invasive Surgery: MIS
Laparoscopic Appendectomy Surgery is performed by small punctures in order to insert a camera and surgical instruments to the abdomen.
The wound size is about 1-2 cm.
During a procedure, a surgeon will show patients clear image of what is inside the body through a screen.
However, a choice of having laparoscopic procedures depends on type of diseases, severity and risk, for that reason, assessing individual health status of patients is needed.
Also, all diseases that occur in the abdominal cavity can be treated by the appendectomy surgery as well.
Why MIS is better than open surgery?
Have the size of the surgical wound at only 1-2 cm, while the open surgery gives you 12-20 cm.
Reduce injury to tissues and internal organs including pain and blood loss.
Reduce complications, which is safer than open abdominal surgery.
Rehabilitate the hospital for only for 1-2 days.
In some cases, patients may return home immediately after surgery.
This is faster than open surgery that takes patients to recover for weeks.
Benefit the physician in terms of clearly see the location of surgical site by a use of camera magnification.
Surgery is on the spot, thus it helps reduce the impact on other organs.
Provide reduction of fascia in the abdominal cavity caused by open surgery.
What you should eat after appendectomy?
After appendectomy the patient may have fatigue.
Food that is suitable for them should be easy to swallow, such as soup, juice, so that the digestive system can work less which will not affect the wound.
The next day, it is able to change to concentrated tasty food to see the function of abdominal organs whether they can work normally or not, then follows with light meals that give the body less digesting, such as porridge with soft meat and vegetables.
The food must be digestible, and cooked, while fruits must be ripe.
Please avoid foods with strong taste as well as drinking tea, coffee and alcohols.
The appendicitis is easy to be treated, but what you must know is that whenever you have the abdominal pain , avoid taking painkillers in order to observe such symptoms.
Moreover, extra benefit of the observation is useful for a doctor to find an exact spot of the pain including helping the doctor distinguish the type of it, according to all of benefits, they can contribute to more effective diagnosis as well as treatment process.
What is a Hernia?
Hernia is a condition that happens when the small intestine starts to move or push itself.
However, this action causes fat and peritoneum flow to the side of scrotum or pubes.
The common hernia is inguinal hernia, which may occur to patients since they were born.
This type of disease happens in males caused by many factors: pregnancy, a male fetus’s testis canal is unable to be closed, the testicle is moved down to the scrotum, the weakness of the abdominal wall, exertion, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, chronic cough, obesity, constipation, enlarged prostate and diseases with collagen abnormality.
At the same time, in females the umbilical hernia can also happen which it can spread or occur in other areas as well
What cause hernia?
Deficiency of adhesion inside the abdominal wall.
Increased pressure inside the abdomen.
Abdominal muscle abnormalities.
Pregnancy, obesity, coughing, sneezing or heavy lifting which all increase more pressure inside the abdomen.
Constipation and urinary tract obstruction
What are the symptoms of a inguinal hernia?
Bulged lumps may be found only in the area of scrotum or pubes with slight pain or no symptoms at all.
While standing, walking, or exercising patients often find themselves having the lumps in the area of the groin.
The lumps may disappear while lying and it can be pushed by hands.
Severe pain, the lumps cannot be pushed (incarcerated hernia) along with vomiting and no defecation.
These may occur due to intestinal obstruction of the hernia.
Strangulation, which requires an emergency surgery.
Diagnosis of hernia
At first, the doctor will ask patients about medical history or record.
Then the physical examination will be performed by making the patient stand, later, it may be necessary to insert their fingers into inguinal canal (Figure 1) In fact, patients require to flex the abdomen or cough during an examination.
However, the hernia has to be checked on both sides, if having inguinal hernia, this type of hernia can be treated after being found immediately. On the other hand, in case of unclear cause in obese people and those who have had hernia surgery, some additional examination may be needed, such as ultrasonography, CT scan, or MRI.
Alternative treatment for hernia
The treatment is applied for locating the intestine back to its original site.
A puncture will be provided to tighten the hole or reinforce the weakness of muscle as well as fibrosis.
However, in case of patients with incarcerated hernia.
The treatment is made by patients and surgeons.
The patient needs to lie down the body, and receive muscle relaxant, painkiller, and sleeping pills, while the surgeon will use fingers pressing on the intestine to push it back to the position.
Moreover, if the hernia has infarction, many treatments methods are required: removing the bag of hernia, and suturing to repair the inner wall including the surgery for hernia repair are a must as when the hernia is left for too long, it may lead to decomposition as well as dead skin.
SURGERY: The most effective treatment for hernia.
The only way to cure hernia is by surgery.
There are two main types of hernia surgery as follows:
Open Technique
The doctor will perform the surgery and push the intestine back inside.
Later the hernia bag will be sewed, while some defects will be repaired either by tissues attaching or free-tension surgery by using sheet.
The hernia sheet helps reduce a change of disease occurrence better than attaching the tissues.
Besides, there are also surgical procedures.
In all cases, patients may have about 6-8 cm size of an ulcer; on the groin area where the hernia is located.
This surgery may require anesthesia and spinal anesthesia.
Moreover, severe pain may occur in the wound area, also long recovery is needed before returning to normal life.
In addition exercise and sport are still allowed to do.
Laparoscopic Technique
There are two different ways of this technique: an operation without accessing to the abdominal area and a procedure that requires abdominal accessing.
The patient will have one 1.5 cm small incision or wound as well as two 0.5cm incision(Figure 2).
However, during a process, the surgeon will set the hernia bag back to the abdominal cavity and put the sheet by holding it with metal pins.
In fact, the laparoscopic surgery often requires anesthesia as well.
Advantages of Laparoscopic Technique
In case of severe bleeding and severe inflammation which the surgical camera is unable to be inserted, open surgery then will be provided to the process.
Normally, a physician will treat patient bases on the disease.
However, the laparoscopic surgery has following advantages over open surgery:
Small lesions only 5-10 mm.
Less tissue damage including the chance of fibrosis in the abdomen.
Less pain after surgery.
Less complications.
Reduce the rate of recurrence
Repair all types of hernia
Rehabilitation in the hospital only 1-2 days, but some cases can return home immediately after recovery.
Within a week, patients can live normally and if there is no pain within 2-4 weeks, exertion and sport then are allowed to do.
Knee pain may not seem like an issue as most people think it is commonly happen in elders.
The pain is usually left for many years until a person is unable to walk or having some difficulties for the walk.
However, the knee joint in our body is the largest organ that has a responsibility of carrying the body weight includes making our bodies move easily for activities.
When some problems occur to the joint, they can cause many following difficulties such as limitation of body moving which affects the person’s everyday life including both physical and mental health.
What is cause of Knee Arthritis?
Most knee pain or knee arthritis are caused by osteoarthritis, especially in patients who are older than 50.
However, the osteoarthritis actually occurs when the cartilage degeneration in knee is happened.
The cause of the degeneration is started when the bones locating next to the joints create friction.
Accordingly the bone later become deteriorated, for that reason, leg pain or walking in pain may affect a person until he is unable to move the body easily.
Factors that stimulate the Arthritis
Age : Older age has high chance of a disease as the joint used for a longer time comparing to young people.
Gender : Women are most likely to have the arthritis twice of men due to hormone that cause obesity and longer times of spending life.
Thus, females tend to live longer which creates more opportunities of using knees.
In addition, women with obesity hormone may cause the knee to bear a lot of weight.
Weight : People with heavy body weight have a greater chance of osteoarthritis than those with a lower body weight.
Behavior : Those who are sitting, kneeling or standing for a long time.
The knee will deteriorate faster than others.
The athlete : Knee injury caused by collision during game.
Accident : Injuries that occurs to the knee as well as knee fractures and knee tendon rupture.
Muscular and Bone Strength: In those who do not exercise, their knee muscles and bones will easily be deteriorated.
Signs of Osteoarthritis
Moving knees up and down uncomfortably due to the pain.
Having a crack sound of the knee while climbing, walking up or down stairs including while bending the knees.
Taking pain relief over 3 months but symptoms still remains with no improvement.
Significant Symptoms of Osteoarthritis
During the first stage of the symptoms, slight knee pain and the friction will appear.
However, while moving your body, a crack sound may happen.
That can be more painful when your body is moved in different postures, such as, walking.
In fact, the pain decreases after the postures are stopped.
If a person still does not receive a treatment, this pain will gradually increase its severity according to the friction.
Moreover, on account of mentioned reason, theses following symptoms will be showing: loose knee ligament that causes you to fail, bowlegs, cracking sounds as well as stretch inability.
For all causes, patients may require joint removal procedure provided by orthopedic surgeon in order that you can receive effective diagnosis as well as treatment.
Diagnosis of Osteoarthritis
The doctor will evaluate the history of illness, at the same time, observation provided by the doctor will be done by seeing patients walk or seeing them during physical examination, this also include the screening of knee muscle, shape as well as leg muscles around the knee.
In addition, inflammation, swelling, redness, swelling of the joints, bending, stretching and cracking sound will be screened and observed through CT scan or MRI.
Treatment of Osteoarthritis
There are many ways to cure degenerative knee joint depending on the symptoms and its stage.
The target is to reduce knee pain and slow down the disease severity along with restoration of knee function and complications prevention.
These can provide patients with good quality of life.
However, the treatments are as follows:
Medication; The doctor will provide the drug to reduce inflammation and pain.
If patients take it for a long time, they may be harmed by side effects such as gastrointestinal bleeding.
Therefore, the use of drugs should be under prescription.
Knee Replacement Surgery; At present, people with severe knee osteoarthritis usually select this treatment.
The surgery requires the knee skin removal for new skin replacement.
During the procedure the surgeon would adjust skin tension and flexibility of tissues around the knee to make sure whether its shape remains normal as well as position for inserting the artificial knee as this helps reduce the pain and cure the symptoms.
A new knee then could be more stable and works better than the deteriorated one.
After the surgery, patients can live their life normally without being burden of someone in a house.
However, The doctor will always plan and provide patients an appropriate treatment by considering the health and severity of the disease.
Normally, patients after having the operation can be able to walk within 24 hours and rest in a hospital several days before returning home.
In addition, after doing physical therapy they all cured and walk normally within short time for their recovering which means having this way of treatment is safe and harmless to every patient.
When patient comes to a hospital with chest pain, a diagnosis has to be provided immediately.
In fact, if the patient is suspected of having arterial stenosis.
Coronary Angiography Treatment then needs to be given to a person in order to determine where the position of arterial stenosis is and to manage a remedy promptly.
Moreover, according to ischemic of a heart, it drives the patient at risk for sudden heart attack and death.
What is Coronary Angiography?
The Coronary angiography requires a use of a small catheter that has a diameter length about 2 mm long.
The catheter will be inserted to at which slightly closes to the heart.
Next, iodine contrast medium will be injected to assess a site of the arterial stenosis and heart muscles as well as the heart valve function.
All processes contribute a precision of diagnosis and treatment.
Generally, the contrast medium gives some side effects to patients who are allergic to seafood.
Accordingly, whoever have seafood allergy should inform the doctor before a procedure.
Preparation
A doctor will ask patients about allergic condition including chronic diseases.
If the patient has to take a regular medicine, especially fibrinolytics, this information needs to be informed and the patient has to bring the medicine to the doctor as well.
Patient has to do Physical Examination
Patients must not eat or drink within 6-8 hours before the examination.
Procedures
Doctors will provide Local anesthetics before arterial puncture on the wrist or groin.
A soft plastic tube will be inserted into the arteries in order to let the catheter pass and also to connect it to the arteries directly.
Doctors will inject the contrast agents to the catheter.
The contrast medium then will be passed through the coronary arteries; they can be seen clearly, so that the arteries stenosis site can also be found.
During cardiac catheterization, blood pressure, pulse rate, oxygen concentration in the blood and symptoms will be monitored constantly.
When the doctor detects some disorders that can be corrected by the catheterization.
The doctor then will enlarge the narrowed part of the artery by using a balloon and a stent.
When the diagnosis and treatment process are completed.
Afterward, the catheter and plastic tube will be pulled out of the arteries on the area of the wrist and groin.
To refrain bleeding is pressing on the area about 10-15 minutes.
However, in case of vasodilation, the plastic tube should be kept for around 4-6 hours before removing.
The PROs of Coronary Angiography
Diagnosis and confirmation of coronary artery disease are precisely provided.
This method is simple, comfortable and fast.
The patients only receive local anesthesia with no anaesthetic.
In fact, a process only takes 20-30 minutes.
In case, if there is ischemic heart disease, balloon and stent angioplasty will be provided promptly.
It takes only 45 minutes - 1 hour.
Low risk with only 0.01%.complications.
Patients can recover fast while a hospital stay is only within 1-2 days before they return home.
Remedy after receiving Coronary Angiography
Patients should rest in the hospital for about 1-2 days.
Lie on bed, do not bend your legs and hands where the injection is made about 6-12 hours.
Going to toilet or getting out of the bed is not allowed.
Moreover, please follow your doctor's instructions strictly.
Most doctors will allow patients to walk on the next day, and if there is no abnormality, then they will be allowed to go home.
Patients are able to have food normally and drink plenty of water for 1-1.5 litre a day to help excrete the contrast agents during urination.
After cardiac catheterization, for about 1-7 days, patients need to avoid lifting heavy object, or exertion such as, walking or running.
If you have swelling, redness or severe pain in the area where the catheter was used.
According to mentioned symptoms please immediately notify or see your doctor.
Coronary Angiography is applied to spot the real cause of heart stenosis.
However, we all can prevent ourselves from it by avoid making some risk behaviors, for instance, having food with high saturated fat, not keeping your weight on a standard, not taking enough rest, love having stress as well as avoid doing aerobic exercise and love alcohol drinking or smoking in order to save our hearts from today.
Are you a single lady who loves being independent and not ready to be a mom yet?
However, in the future you still plan for it, there is nothing to worry about as we have “Egg freezing” for you.
What is Egg Freezing?
Egg Freezing is an innovative egg preservation for those who want to have children in the future.
The complete eggs will be stored in liquid nitrogen at temperature -195 degrees Celsius, it is simply said that the frozen egg will be put or stored in stable temperature to maintain its original state.
When it is time that mother is ready to have the baby, it then will be used by dissolving mixing with sperm.
The Advantages of Egg Freezing
With today's status changing such as lifestyle, more people are found hard to get married while certain try to spend less money and get ready.
However, unfortunately it may take them in longer year to be settle and have a baby.
The egg freezing is now the best solution for keeping the healthy egg as in the future woman body may cause miscarriage as well as other disorders during the pregnancy.
Who should do "Eggs Freezing"
Women aged over 35 who is not ready to have a baby at the moment.
Those who plan to have children in the future and may take many years to be married.
Those who require ovarian surgery due to chocolate cyst or tumor.
Patients who require chemotherapy or radiation which lower the capacity of ovarian function.
People with chromosomal abnormalities that cause early menopause.
Woman with risk factors such as those working with chemical elements.
Many girls may think there is no need for egg freezing but who knows during the next two years, you may find the right man and want to have a baby this could be one of your preparation process.
Coronary artery disease or myocardial infarction has been frequently found in people nowadays.
In fact, both of them are actually the same.
However, the diseases are caused by Arteriosclerosis which is similar to the rust that is trapped inside the water pipe and when it becomes accumulated too long, then a blockage would happen.
The Arteriosclerosis is caused by the accumulation of fat and limestone including cells from the deepest inner wall of the artery.
This case would gradually coagulate and become thicker, while an obstruction would affect the arteries directly, and the heart would be lack of blood causing angina pain as well as heart attack afterward, which means a chance of death would raise higher as well.
What are the risk factors for coronary heart disease?
Uncontrollable Risk factors
Gender: Men are more vulnerable than women, but the women are at risk when it comes to menopause.
Genetics: A family has a history of being diagnosed with this disease and there is a higher risk than others as well.
Age: Males aged 40 or older, but nowadays by the age of 35, they can be at risk for the disease since there is involvement of environmental factors such as alcohol drinking, smoking, lack of sleep, having too many fatty foods.
On the other hand, in females it starts by age 55 or older, because most women take care of themselves well by selecting or consuming low-fat meals including in female body contains hormone which also helps control the fat.
Controllable Factors
Hypertension: Maintain and control to normal level
High Cholesterol Levels in Blood or Hyperlipidemia: control your blood lipid levels by selecting foods carefully or take a medicine directed by a doctor
Diabetes: Controls blood sugar levels
Smoking: Avoid smoking
Alcohol: Avoid drinking
Obesity: Control a body weight, do not let yourself be overweight
Exercise: Exercise at least 3-4 times of aerobic exercises a week, about 30 minutes each.
Stress: Practice meditation, avoid having anxiety and set your mind clear
Resting: Have enough sleep at least 6-8 hours a day.
Symptoms of coronary artery disease
Most patients with coronary artery disease do not notice that they have been diagnosed with certain abnormalities as symptoms slowly develop and express when the heart lacks of blood or already becomes Acute myocardial infarction.
Primary symptoms of both diseases are discomforted or chest pain, the violences are based on individuals.
Some might suffer from uncomfortable breathing or tiredness due to the heart muscle is in need of the blood including oxygen and nutrients that are enough sufficient for the function of the heart muscle cells through the arteries that supplies the heart.
When the artery becomes narrow, the blood then cannot be delivered to the heart and later the heart will beats faster at the same time as the blood pressure will rise, especially in times of exertion, starving, being angry, frightened and while having nightmares whereas the heart will need more blood supply.
Consequently, myocardial infarction will occur and be followed by the following effects:
No symptoms previously shown : Patients often die suddenly from intensive activities such as sports.
The majority of these people are facing their working-ages while having strong body and health.
There is no warning signs for this case therefore this group of patients should be aware of such sudden dangers.
Fatigue : Get tired easily also breath uncomfortably during activities or exertion
Swelling of the feet or both sides of ankles
Heart failure; It is caused by myocardial infarction (Like a lack of food), or may be caused by acute myocardial infarction.
The heart cannot squeeze itself to supply the blood, at the same time the patients may not be able to lie down as well.
Acute myocardial infarction; Caused by sudden arterial blockages.
However, this is usually caused by a thrombosis in the area of blood obstruction.
The muscular that is maintained by that artery will be dead.
Patients will have severe chest pain while the pain could go longer than usual.
However, the coronary heart disease has increased death records every year.
We all should provide ourselves more self-care to reduce the risk of the disease by modifying improper habits, like avoid having foods with high saturated fat, being overweight, less sleeping, having stress, smoking or drinking alcohol on a regular basis, as mentioned, providing the body and heart by exercising regularly including behavioral modification can protect your health and heart from many serious diseases in the future.
Once we are happy, we are happy together.
So when one gets hurt, it’s impossible that another will be happy.
We have to face it together.
said  the wife of colon cancer patient, who has her smile back after her husband received proper treatment at Phyathai2 Hospital
The minute being told that your husband has Colon Cancer…
At first, my husband was bleeding during defecation.
So I took him to see the familiar doctor.
Once he got screening, the lumps were discovered and the cancer had spread to the lung and liver already”
Seeing your love one suffers…the new alternative for treatment is needed
When the disease is detected, treatment might take about 4-5 months.
Unfortunately, once the drug is provided, later, the body can go against it as I found he became unable to take medicine or to have foods along with weight loss.
The doctor must stop providing the drugs right after he found that the patient’s body is not ready.
Meanwhile, one of my cousins suggested me to go to Phyathai2 Hospital.
So I decided to move him here, whereas my cousin’s symptom was improved after receiving the treatment from this hospital”
First Impression after receiving Treatment at Phyathai2 Hospital
According to vomiting, hiccups, and inability to eat, a doctor decided to provide tube feeding.
His weight then started to increase, which means the medicine could be given to him constantly.
This treatment helps strengthen the body and prepares himself for medication taking”
Getting to know the disease better from a specialist
Comparing to his previous treatment from another hospital, a process is quite the same including medication and complication, however, what makes both hospitals different is a discussion between doctors and family.
At phyathai2 Hospital, firstly, a family has to know and understand about the disease, as my husband’s doctor said he might feel numb on his foot, so he needed to avoid sunlight exposure, at the same time, the dry skin could happen, then I put lotion on that area for him, luckily he did not suffer from both the skin drying or numbness.
Multidisciplinary Team Work Creates “TRUST”
We first met Dr.Teerasan Tantitemit, he set a team for cancer treatment also Dr. Prasan Kachonrattanadet who monitored chemotherapy while Dr.Sombat Leelasupasri focused on infection.
At the same time, Dr. Maneerat watched in case of diabetes care.
The team has taken care of us well, his symptoms have improved and at present, he still receives the treatment from Phyathai2 Hospital.
Every moment is their concerns
I can contact to the doctor every time, even the time I called I did not know whether he was taking care of other patients or not.
Also, in case of emergency I was able to make a call right away and told what was happening, this is so impressive which I did not know whether I can get this from other hospital”
We were impressed by nurses on the 10th Floor; we used to follow them to the 9th floor.
They knew what my husband needed to do, I felt relax and that was a strong bond between us.
"Because healthy pregnancy and childbirth are what every mother wants.
At the same time having a baby during old age does not mean it is prohibited.
For that reason, mothers still have to learn and keep on preparing for this special duty for the best resulting of pregnancy”
That statement comes from our specialized obstetrician from MATERNAL-FETAL MEDICINE, Women Center Phayathai 3 Hospital which underlines about pregnancy during 30.
When women get older what cause their pregnancies abnormal?
When older the ability to be pregnant will be decreased after the age of 32, and extremely decline after the age of 37 on account of the quantity and quality of fertilized eggs are deteriorated along with age.
Moreover, some diseases also affect the pregnancy ability found during aging, for example, Myoma uteri, Chocolate Cyst etc.
As a result, during pregnancy both mother and baby still at risks which require a close supervision.
Risks and Problems
Mothers having a delayed motherhood with chronic diseases such as hypertension and diabetes.
This case, they can directly send an impact to a baby includes mothers themselves along with other complications.
For example, miscarriage, fetal growth restriction, intrauterine fetal demise, preterm labor, preeclampsia and diabetes etc.
Genetic Disorders and Mother’s Age
The risks of physical disability in baby will not be increased, instead genetic disorders may occur for instance Down’s syndrome which causes more disabilities to the baby.
Thus, all mothers should receive proper detection or examination in order to catch some abnormalities in fetus.
For example, blood test for Down’s syndrome, amniocentesis, chorionic villi sampling, ultrasound examination etc.
Multiple Pregnancy and Cautions
Women with delayed motherhood have more chances of multiple pregnancy.
Besides, the use of assisted reproductive technology like IVF is one of twin babies process, yet the multiple pregnancy has risks of many complications as well.
For example, preterm labor, preeclampsia, diabetes, fetal growth restriction and diabetes.
Which require closely monitor by a specialized obstetrician.
Vaginal delivery
Delayed Motherhood can have vaginal delivery depending on both mother and fetus conditions.
According to statistics, complications are found more in the mothers.
For that reason, Caesarean Section becomes an alternative in delayed age pregnancy comparing to younger mothers
Preparation for Delayed Motherhood
Receive Physical Examination before having a baby
Intake healthy food
Take folic acid at least 0.4 milligrams a day in 1 month before pregnancy including during the pregnancy.
Exercise regularly.
Try to lose weight if you are overweight or obese.
Stop smoking and drinking alcohol
Avoid exposure to chemicals that may affect pregnancy
After being pregnant, make a regular antenatal care also follow your doctor’s instructions.
Breast Augmentation becomes popular among women especially Asians as most of them barely have chest fat.
In fact, breast augmentation can help increase confidence, charm as well as better body shape.
One of the questions frequently asked is how we can have a safe breast augmentation.
For that question, a specialized surgeon in Plastic Surgery at Phayathai Sriracha Hospital , Dr.Adulayanut Aranyapal will explain and share you deep talk about this topic.
Breast Augmentation Introduction
Breast augmentation is a surgery whereby a doctor needs to provide silicone inserting to enlarge the breast for a better shape and make it close to the shape of Perfect Beautiful Breast.
The definition of Perfect Beautiful Breast means the breast fat from the upper part is less than the lower one at 45% : 55% and the nipples point up approximately 10-20 degree.
Moreover, the fat should be balance, not having much compression with a perfect slope that can make them look beautiful when you wear a bra.
In order to have the Perfect beautiful breast, you have to plan for it by starting from selecting the type of silicone on which matches your body condition.
You can plan in advance by wearing a silicone model to find the silicone shape that fit with your condition the most provided by a surgeon including selecting the best operation for yourself.
How to select the shape?: Teardrop or Round Breast Implants
There are 2 types of silicone shape:  Teardrop and Round.
The teardrop silicone has a natural slope which matches to those not preferring a distinctive look or a notice of silicone edge on the breast whereas the round silicone suits for those loving to have their breasts more outstanding.
Key process of breast surgery
After selecting the size, type and shape of coating, then it comes to the time of surgery.
The most important part is to operate the pain abatement.
The doctor has to plan it well includes checking your body and health thoroughly by providing blood test, lung screening, electrocardiography as well as an advice from heart specialist and experienced anesthesiologists to make sure that there will be no complications.
At the same time, medical tools should be prepared under standard with no contamination, additionally operating room needs to have good ventilation system as well.
In order to reduce swollen bruise, bleeding and to make patients recover fast, the doctor will use Electrocautery to stop the bleeding and to create a layer in muscles for inserting the silicone.
The insertion requires a use of the keller funnel while after taking the silicone, then it will immediately be pushed through a surgical cut to avoid touching since this method can lower the risk of infection and swelling.
Best Silicone Position
There are 3 types of locating the silicone: Under the muscle, over the muscle and dual plane.
The best location is the dual plane in which the upper part of the breast will be under the muscle and the lower will be under the breast fat.
When the breasts’ muscle is tightened, the lower breasts can raise up along with the nipples.
Therefore, this type of surgery becomes the most optimal choice as there will be less risk of Capsular contracture and be the first alternative for surgeon as well.
What is Capsular contracture?
Capsular contracture happens when your body finds foreign matters inside your body.
A problem occurs after the body produces excess fascia, causing them to squeezes your breasts and make disorder shape.
You will feel pain and notice that the shape of your breasts is changed.
The main cause is bacteria contamination which produces the biofilm to cover itself making your body unable to get rid of it.
The result is a chronic inflammation and capsular contracture.
An additional cause is from an unprofessional surgery or a low-quality silicone that damages the tissues causing excess bleeding and contamination.
“Accordingly, the best way to prevent the capsular contracture is to get the surgery from a professional doctor.”
said Dr. Dulayanut Aranyapal.
“Chin” is one of vital parts on the face.
A good shape of it enhances your face with more beauty.
For that reason, in this article specialized surgeon Dr. Dulayanut Aranyapal, has come to disclose you this topic.
Types of Chin Implants
“In general, there are several ways of chin surgery starting from adjusting the molar bone and chin and providing to those having malocclusion or aiming to do more silicone implants at the chin for a longer shape.
In fact, the silicone chin implants will only be provided to people who have short chin with no occlusion issue as well as are willing to have orthodontics.
Doctor Proficiency and Patients can make surgery success
Both the doctor and patients have to decide the size of the silicone for the best result and the most satisfaction from patients.
Facial reconstruction program for surgery
Apart from silicone selecting, for the best resulting there is facial reconstruction program on which the surgeon would use to display how your face would be like after the surgery.
Only 1-day revival
After you choose the size you want, the doctor will takes about 40 minutes for the Silicone Chin Implants by first starting from the anesthetic injection.
However, as it is a small operation, thus, you only need 1 day to recover.
At the same time the doctor will stop you from bleeding to control the blood as well as swollen bruises and later insert the silicone under the periosteum to prevent the silicone from moving including distortion.
Cartilage-like soft silicone provides you realistic results
Using a silicone-premium grade, will make you look similar to the cartilage making it hard to see the edge of the silicone in long term.
Also the silicone will adjoin onto the bone like a real one making you to have a good-looking chin.
“As today, the chin surgery is not difficult anymore, merely 40 minutes you can have a pretty outstanding chin with more confidence” said  Dr. Dulayanut Aranyapal (Specialized surgeon in Plastic Surgery from Phayathai Sriracha Hospital)
Even though Rhinoplasty has become normal for everyone, it is hard to make it looks natural like a real one.
Hoever, today, we have some specific tips and information from our Medical Specialist in Plastic Surgery, Phyathai Sriracha Hospital, Dr.Adulayanut Aranyapal or Dr.Ping.
Rhinoplasty techniques
In general, there are 2 alternatives for Rhinoplasty:
Closed technique : It is a Rhinoplasty technique that requires no cartilage restructuring.
A surgeon will start from cutting a lesion inside your nostril and insert a matching silicone to uplift the nose curve and ridge.
For this technique, either some of cartilage behind their ears or an artificial tissue might be used in process to make the nose even more natural.
Opened technique : This techniques suits with those who want to fix the nose’s bone and cartilage.
It is a big surgery that requires the doctors to use an anesthesia which they have to cut the core of your nose and includes the nose hole to open it.
Next step is providing hump resection and squeeze the nose to make the ridge smaller.
Moreover, you can choose if you would like to shape the tip of your nose for more stunning look.
Your nose, your design
Surely, everyone has different tastes.
Those receiving a procedure need some advices from their surgeons by the shape you want: straight up, narrow, long short or wide.
Both patients and doctors have to discuss about alternatives and possibility.
Accordingly, patients should come to a conclusion on which shape they would like to go for before the surgery.
Definitely, nose shape depends on your satisfaction, having a virtual picture before undergoing the process would provide the best result.
How to take care of yourself before and after the surgery
Before an operation, pimples should not be around the nose as it can cause infection, includes having a cold, at the same time, do not forget to inform the surgeon about medicine you take daily.
Later, your nose will be cleaned, trimmed and sterilized by the doctor to make it as clean as possible.
After the operation, “The doctor will insert splint inside your nose and leave it for 5-7 days to hold the silicone.
While the patients should provide cold compress right after the surgery, stop playing your phone and stop bent sitting as it can cause swollen bruise to the nose.”
Beautiful nose by Advanced Aesthetic Science
“The best result for nose surgery is when it seems like natural one.
This resulting implies Advanced Aesthetic Science which about making your nose look beautiful and naturally fit in with your face rather than making it spike or high.
Accordingly, natural beauty look from the surgery is the best satisfaction of all patients.”
said Dr. Dulayanut Aranyapal.
Lesion is undeniable to happen during a surgery depends on the type of it.
Apart from wound care after operation, food is one of the factor that you should seriously pay attention to on account of there are some types of that help your body revive faster.
When the lesion revives fast, you will have less risk of infection.
What type of things that helps patients revive from the surgery faster?
Water
Although water cannot be counted as a nutrient, but it plays a big part in our body.
Water is one of the most important factors that can heal the surgical wound.
When the body consists of enough moisturizer, all the cells can move from the tip of the lesion in order to cover all parts of the wound.
On the contrary, if the body has dehydration, the cell will die and give you more pain.
Accordingly, you should drink 8-10 glasses of water every day to fulfill your body and fast recovery.
Protein
You might misunderstand and think that meat, milk and egg cause you delayed recovery.
In fact, that conception is incorrect on account of protein can benefit your body by producing tissue and fixing all the deteriorated parts including strengthening all cells and new skin together as well as protecting the body from infection.
Furthermore, after the surgery, your body requires one fold of protein from fish, egg, yoghurt, grains and several types of bean.
Iron and Zinc
Iron and Zinc help stimulate the wound for healing process.
It also simply provides protein and collagen synthesizing as well as shuffling your skin out of  cells.
If you want to recover fast, consume Iron and Zinc not over 15 milligrams daily from fish, roe, seafood, green vegetable and soybean.
Good fats
Apart from giving you high energy, good fats help transforming protein from the muscle to be used as an energy to fix all the cells including healing some wounds.
Good fat can be found in olive oil, rice bran oil, peanut oil, soybean oil and sesame oil and hard-shell bean, such as, almond, cashew nut and peanut.
Vitamin C
Our body need vitamin C.
Apart from being antioxidant, it helps absorbing iron, producing red blood cell, strengthening the blood vessels, making wound healed faster with less swelling.
We can consume vitamin C from vegetables and fruits, for instances, orange, guava, papaya, guava and broccoli.
To recover from the surgery fast, you have to consume 100-200 milligrams of vitamin C daily.
The way to clean the wound is also important.
You should follow what the doctor’s order carefully.
Give the best care of the wound so that you can revive fast.
Also, you should skip raw and fermented food because it can cause infections.
If you follow what are mentioned, you can recover fast and be ready to show how neat your skin is.
It is normal to have bruises after a surgery especially for the swelling.
A lot of people get serious about it because they are afraid that recuperation might go slow.
Most of the time, patient thinks the bruises and swelling are caused by the doctor but actually it is not.
In fact, this effect is normal for all surgeries since the tissue is contacted directly.
Also the response to the damage is various in different person.
However, those who have received the procedure and would like to have fast recuperation.
Here are 4 ways to relieve swelling and bruised after the aesthetic operation.
Cold compression
Applying cold compression right after the surgery within 48 hours by using cold pack or a wet freezed cloth can help controlling the loss of blood, pain and the swelling.
It makes the vessels squeeze and also helps increasing the blood flow and reduces the swellings.
Your blood then will be formed and stop bleeding.
However, what should be aware of is those receiving augmented nose and chin surgery do the compression on the forehead in spite of both surgical areas, avoid touching silicone during the cold compression due to the silicone  position might be moved.
Raise your head in higher position
In the first 3-5 days after a nose surgery, you should always put your head higher than your heart level in order to prevent liquid substances from leaking out of the blood.
It also helps reducing the swelling damage.
However, by doing this, you might need a high pillow.
Hot compression after 1 week
After 1 week passed for cold compression, change to a use of hot compression because heat helps widening the blood vessels for receiving all the liquid substances that might be left in the swelling tissue.
Moreover, heat also helps dissolve blood clot and soften the hard membrane.
Please keep in mind that it should not be too hot or else it can burn your skin.
In addition, you should also observe yourself, if the swelling comes back after using the hot compression, you should stop using it.
Food to reduce the swelling damage
Food is the key for the reducing of swelling damage.
You are recommended to have pumpkin, seaweed, Asiatic pennywort or black bean on account of they contain vitamin A that heals and protects you from infection, swelling and bacteria.
However, mineral, fiber and iron also help warming up your body- temperature, reducing swollen skin, enriching your blood, detoxifying your body and killing the infection as well.
Breast is an important issue for women.
Improper shape can lower a self-esteem when you try clothes on as there is no curve.
In fact, nowadays, women tend to pay more attentions to breast surgery as there are many process to have a natural beauty look of their breasts.
Surely, before having a surgery, some more research is needed.
Each of you have a different favor.
Some might have the shape in mind already while some still do not know which shape should they go with, therefore they will not feel satisfied after it is done leading to more time of surgery which is such a waste of time and money.
To avoid such issue, we should precisely study more on breast implant surgery.
Which sizes you prefer?
Many people are not certain about they really need.
Instead, only want their breast as large as possible.
In the reality, they should choose a proper size matching with their body.
Misfit of breast size will lead to an uncomfortable feeling, loss of being confident during interacting with others.
Enlarging the breast size…“Round” or “Teardrop” which one matches your style?
Breast surgery does not only about the size, but it is also about the shape.
Body shape is main things that should be concerned.
However, mostly, the style of breast augmented surgery with silicone are round and teardrop.
Round silicone breast implants
This shape is for women who want their breasts to be salient and round, suit with those who have fatty tissue within the area.
Silicon will be filled in the upper part of the breast.
This implant matches the breast with enough volume.
Some might want to take a slightly adjustment on the upper part.
In fact, the round silicone implants are soft and elastic, so, the breast naturally will flow into lower areas, which make it look like a teardrop while standing and sitting.
Especially in sleeping posture.
Teardrop breast implant
The teardrop implant creates the breast shape with a little slope to provide a look of teardrop which is considered as the main different thing from round breast implant.
However, it is applied in those of which middle area of the breasts are facing with a condition of Pectus Carinatum by helps filling volume at their breast’s base and shape up their nipples.
This will be fit for undersize or downward position with a natural look.
As you can see, having a breast surgery is not only about the preferences whereas you all have a different type of breast.
Thus, in case of not having confidence, then you should feel free to consult specialized surgeons.
They will find a best solution fits for you.
The appointment date has come closer, but you do not know how to prepare yourself? Apart from preparing your mental state, you also have to prepare for the body in order to lower the risk and prevent yourself from any other issues.
In this article will give you suggestion on how to get ready for your first experience of plastic surgery.
No alcohol and smoking
Before taking a plastic surgery, you have to pause alcoholic beverages drinking as well as smoking for at least 1 week because both of them affect the vein and make it hard for you to recover from the lesion.
However, in case of big surgery, such as, face lifting or abdominoplasty Nicotine in the tobacco will put your skin at risk of lacking of blood and death cell.
Have enough rest
You should have an enough rest and be stress-free because a fresh or strong body can make the surgery goes smooth.
If you have a high blood pressure, you should control your blood pressure.
Moreover, if you have a cold, please make sure you are recovered from it first before having a surgery, on the other hand if you have hypertension then control the body pressure.
For that reason, there is no need to worry about the complications when the body is set to be ready.
Inform your conditions; Congenital disease and drug history to a doctor
You should inform the doctor about your congenital disease includes the drug allergy before the surgery in order to reduce risks during and after an operation.
Time is a crucial factor
All surgery will leave you bruises and swellings, less or more depends on the type of surgery you take.
Thus, you should also manage your time well for the issue.
Furthermore, both physical and mental should be ready for the surgery whereas it does not mean that you would be super beautiful right after the surgery.
For that reason people will need time to recover.
It might be months.
Therefore you should be patient as the beauty requires time.
If you are one of those who want to have children, but still look the way to get pregnant.
However, it sometimes requires right moment and time.
These are some good techniques for you.
What is "Ovulation"?
Ovulation is a natural mechanism of reproductive system in female that occurs every month before reaching menopause.
It takes about 28-35 days a round, starting on the first day of menstruation.
The date that eggs ovulate is when the mature eggs are released to the end part of the ovary duct.
1 month, Only One Ovulation
For each ovulated date could be different in each person based on time of the menstruation.
By the way when eggs start to ovulate they only can live about 12-24 hours.
If fertilization or sexual intercourse happens during this time, the eggs then will go embedded in the uterus wall and turn to embryo leading to pregnancy.
On the other hand, if there is no fertilization 14 days later that would become menstruation as usual.
Sperm can Embbed in The Uterus without Ovulation
Even if it's not the ovulated date, sperm that enter to the uterus can still live for 48-72 hours.
In addition, although not having sex on the right date about 1-2 days prior that could also leads to pregnancy.
However, if you have sex after that, chance will be lowered due to shorter time for eggs to live.
Counting the right time of ovulation?
Normally, the counting starts before next round of menstruation.
In order to count the date precisely requires stable time of your menstruation such as it comes in every day 28.
According to that, the ovulation date will be on day 14 (First day of menstruation = Day 1) After that you can start scheduling time for sexual intercourse (sex) from Day 12.
The sperm will live and wait for the fertilization around 2 days before the menstruation.
Apart from counting the ovaluated date, some discharge or mucus from your virgina could be a major sign for effective fertilization that lead to the pregnancy known as golden minute.
Receiving Consutation from Your Doctor
For those who have problems with menstruation we recommend you to consult a doctor to find the right cause
Plastic surgery is not only for the aesthetic purpose but it can also change your life.
According to the Chinese Physiognomy, these organs on your face are matter such as eyes shape, forehead, nose and mouth.
In fact, if we have good physiognomy on the face, it can help uplift our lives for a better coming of situation in the future.
What is Good Physiognomy?
The physiognomy is a Chinese science for analyzing a beauty of the face.
Chinese people do not look only at how beautiful you are but they think of it as a science.
For that reason this beauty science focuses on 5 facial parts for instance, forehead, eyebrows & eyes, nose, mouth and chin shape.
However, the most important factor of Physiognomy is that your face should overall looks clean and decent.
5 Spots of Physiognomy
Forehead
The forehead represents the intelligence, happiness and prosperity.
A good forehead should have a proper width size included outstanding look.
Most importantly it must be cleared with no flaw, for example, wrinkle and cavity.
However, if the forehead size is your palm size which means that you are intelligent, being interested in learning new things, being energetic and diligent including being able to deal with all tough issues.
On the contrary, if your forehead is wider than the palm it means that you will always be supported by people and the life will be free from pressure.
Eyebrows and Eyes
The characteristic of good eyebrows and eyes is when their tails are not pointed downward as that makes you look sad and they are both facial parts that open up for a good thing.
Thus, the shape of both eyebrows and eyes should go along with facial beauty.
In fact, the good eyebrow starts from the beginning of the eyelid, the end of the eyebrow should be paralleled with the end of the eyes or slightly longer than the end of the eyes.
At the same time, the eyebrow’s hair should horizontally line up from the beginning of the eye to the end of itself.
Moreover, a good eye should be bright to express the feelings such as anger, hate or laziness.
Bright eye conveys that you are brave and patient.
Nose
Nose can tell your habit, thoughts, mind, power, luck and treasure.
A good nose should be long straight and does not matter whether it is big or short but the nose must contain fatty tissues.
If your nose bridge raises up high and has a big shape, that implies to your good health condition and good money in hand.
On the other hand, the alar nasi tells you about the luck which circle-shape of it means you are rich in money and good of luck.
Mouth
Mouth shape can tell about your habits, mind, honesty, emotion and health.
A good shape of the mouth starts with clear lips line also the lips-corners line should slightly point up and make it look fit with the face.
However, the observation of good size according to physiognomy can be made by drawing an invisible line from the central of black eye straight to the lips corner of both sides while looking straight to measure an optimal angle, if  the width of your lips or the end of lips corners vertically connects to the line from the black eyes means you have a big mouth implying to good of luck in contrast having distorted mouth might lead to a distorted heart.
Chin
Referring to the Physiognomy, a good shape of the chin should not be too short or narrow.
Nevertheless, it should be in a shape of circular curve and balanced.
The chin helps attract money.
You would have plenty of money in long term if u have a good shape.
Moreover, it shows your power and fearless.
You will be able to manage your followers well as a leader.
Finally, it tells that you will have a good love.
How dangerous it can be if you extend Osteoarthritis without a treatment?
There are a lot of people having Osteoarthritis who are too afraid to receive a treatment, including not knowing that their decision would make things more severe, especially to the nearby organs in the future.
Accordingly, AVM Dr. Chumroonkiet Leelasestaporn, a surgeon specialized in Computer Assisted Navigation in TKA and THA at Phyathai Nawamin hospital will give you some advices on this.
Not all cases...need surgery
In fact, doctors will not suggest surgery as a treatment in every case. they will apply it as the last alternative treatment only in the case that they see its benefits for the patients.
However, when the surgery is needed, it is essential to receive the surgery as soon as possible since in some case, the causes might be related to patients’ lifestyle.
Once the inappropriate behavior is resolved, there is the high possibility of being back to normal stage or at least avoid getting more severe.
Some patients might only need an exercise.
If it is not getting better, an x-ray will be provided which usually the disk is found ruptured, then laparoscopic surgery will be applied to clean the joint and fix the cartilage.
This alternative will not harm your joint.
On the other hand, in a severe case of which the knee bones are all broken, you might need another method for a surgery due to an injection or medication may not work for this situation.
Osteoarthritis Extension
The doctor states that most of the time when the patients have only one knee Osteoarthritis, instead of getting a treatment they will then use another side intensively.
As mentioned case, having an early surgery of the that one leg saves you from a delayed operation which causes both of the legs more deteriorations and eventually lead you to receive a surgical treatment on both sides of their legs.
However, the results of the surgery only base on tendon condition.
Uneven legs and Spondylosis
In reference to what the doctor has mentioned, you better receive a surgery in an early stage.
At the same time, a problem is that the unbalanced legs can cause you spondylosis which after one leg surgery, patients will suffer from the Osteoarthritis in both knees, their legs would then be unbalanced and that affect their back until they cannot bear, later they might have to do another surgery for their back.
From the statistic, there are a lot of patients coming back to receive the surgery on another side of their legs when it is too late which lead to another severe problem.
Thus, if you have Osteoarthritis on both knee, it is recommended to immediately receive the surgery on both knee at the same time.
Indeed, Nobody wants to have Osteoarthritis surgery.
However, if you do really need to have one, selecting the right type of surgery including doctor can provide you a better lifetime after a treatment.
Today, AVM Dr. Chumroonkiet Leelasestaporn, a surgeon specialized in Computer Assisted Navigation in TKA and THA at Phyathai Nawamin hospital will give you some knowledge concerning the Osteoarthritis surgery and Computer Assisted Surgery for total knee arthroplasty as well as Minimally Invasive Surgery.
Quality & Lifetime, the expectation in all surgeries
In knee Osteoarthritis-surgery, the doctor will focus on the quality and lifetime of the knee.
To have that, 3 factors are needed; the doctor’s capability, precise medical tools and the selection of artificial knee joint.
“By locating the new joint, the doctor has to measure the right angle for an accurate resulting.
In this case, a big issue is the tool called Conventional Technique, a medical equipment for measuring angles by using eyesight.
Although it is mostly used, still the precision rate is approximately at 60-70% meaning that there is still a room to miss during a process.
For that reason from the 20-30 years lifetime might be lowered to be only 2-3 years”
Computer-Assisted Surgery Technique for more accuracy
“This technique benefits us to have real-time measuring of angle with number showing instead of using the eyesight.
Thus, in case of finding some mistake, it can promptly be resolved in time.
Even though, using Computer-assisted Surgery can increase the precision rate to be 95%, the limitation of this technique is the skill of doctor.
The doctor needs to keep practicing until feels familiar with the tools and can perform the operation efficiently.”
“Tendon”, need to be focused
Apart from the precision, the knee movement also depends on its firmness.
However, not having the technology, the doctors have to rely on their own experiences whether the tendon is too tight or not.
In case of loose tendon, the patients might feel unstable while moving, which might be hard for them to move.
Accordingly, the Computer Assisted-Surgery can help lower this issue as it shows the exact number making the precision rate goes up with more than 95%.
MIS, The technique for less pain and fast recovery
This technique has been practicing since in 2000 when people only think of the aesthetic matter.
In fact, the technique is more useful than that.
The normal surgery might leave you with 13-15 cm.
of lesion while there is only 10 cm. for the MIS.
Although it is not a big difference, but what matter is a better condition of internal muscle.
In general, normal Osteoarthritis surgery requires the doctor to dissect your skin that includes muscle layer which leave a damage on the muscle whereas applying MIS, the doctor will then indirectly provide a treatment with less pain. Even MIS is considered as difficult technique but it’s worth for fast recovery.
In conclusion, using both MIS and Computer-assisted Surgery provides double benefits to receivers for the lifetime
Why the first knee surgery is important?
You cannot avoid Osteoarthritis when you get older especially when you have to receive a knee surgical treatment for the first time.
In this article AVM Dr. Chumroonkiet Leelasestaporn, a surgeon specialized in Computer Assisted Navigation in TKA and THA at Phyathai Nawamin hospital will give you more information about this.
Osteoarthritis, an undeniable disease.
The doctor said that, soon or later, people have to experience the Osteoarthritis.
Hence, you have to receive a treatment since the early stage as you might not have to get a surgery later.
However, in case of severe condition do not hesitate to have a surgery whereas having pain accumulation can cause both of your legs including nearby organs such as neck and back Osteoarthritis.
The importance of first knee replacement surgery
For those patients that are diagnosed and in need of the surgery, extending a time can affect both the bones and tendon.
Nowadays, there are several alternatives of surgery providing you satisfied results.
Being frugal with price and time of your first operation may not be a good option.
In fact, patients should take time to find more information about the process and a decision should not base on convenience or price, because it is not worth risking your life for the second operation to revise some of mistakes from the first surgery.
Find more information for a better understanding
What the doctor always tells his patients is to find more information about the treatment because they and family are those who can only make the final decision.
Nevertheless, there are several types of artificial joints.
It does not necessarily mean that you have to select the most expensive one.
At the same time, age is not also a problem as people can have a surgery although they turn 70, 80 or 90 years old.
In case, if patients would like to receive the procedure to want as before, having a surgery is worth it.
Moreover, for having brain disease the surgery might not be a good option.
However, there is one of cases which the doctor has treated him while he was 92.
At that time he would like to be able to walk again, a result is he has an ability to walk and recently he has already turned 107 years old.
Meaning that we don’t know how long our life time would be but we can choose to live happily.
Thus, if walking can make you happy because you can go travelling with your family and friends as well as socializing with people, then, surgery is worth decision.
Engagement and Trust are the big motivation
One of the most frequent issues is the anxiety of patients as it can causes muscle contracting and low revival rate.
In fact, if the patients follow and trust their doctors, they will recover fast with good surgical result.
Accordingly, selecting a hospital and doctor are crucial as both gain you trust which helps protect you from infection, and complication.
We have been heard  that calcium can nourish our bones, still, we do not really know whether that is true or not.
Thus, let’s go through the information below in order to know about the calcium better.
What is “Calcium” ?
Simply, calcium is one of commonly found mineral in which 99 percent of calcium is located in our bone and teeth.
Calcium is important for our cells.
In general the body produces several types of hormones to control the balance of calcium especially in blood so that it can be used in the cells properly also in organs and bones.
What happens if the body cannot produce calcium ?
Although calcium is in our body but the body cannot synthesize the calcium by itself.
Accordingly, we have to consume it from food after digestion and being assimilated by the small intestine, however, people can only assimilate 20-25% of calcium they take for example, if the food contains 100 units of calcium then we only assimilate 20-25 units of it; the rest will be eliminated through feces.
Calcium VS Bone
When calcium has been absorbed from the intestinal cavity to bloodstream, later the blood will be used for transferring calcium to every organ in the body, which includes the bone.
In addition the bone requires a nutrient and oxygen supported by blood.
It consists of nerves and hormones that control function.
In fact, the bones are gradually built inside the womb, and the intensity will continuously grow until the age of 25 to 30  in which the bone mass contains the most number of weight.
On the other hand, at the age of 40, then it will ongoing decline as the older age.
Therefore, you should watch over “BONE MINERAL DENSITY” to be away from a fracture and lower the risk of all types of osteoporosis.
Healthy Bone is good for Knee Joint
When the body receives enough calcium, in this case means generally we need 800-1000 milligrams of calcium a day.
Calcium helps boosting the intensity of the bone mass.
Calcium is really important for us especially when we reach 30 years of age.
Accordingly, a strong bone means a strong knee joint.
Additionally, calcium is also good for your teeth, blood formation, heart rate and muscle efficiency.
If you are one of those who have high chance of getting Knee Osteoarthritis before its time, then it is better to  take down your note on what kind of food you are recommended to consume in order to slow down the time of suffering.
Dried shrimp; absolutely, calcium is the best choice for bone strengthening in spite of taking vitamins, why don’t we have it directly from the natural calcium like dried shrimp? In fact, 100 grams of dried shrimp contains 2,300 milligrams of calcium.
Guava; vitamin is a source of antioxidants helping nourish the joints directly.
It can also cure the inflammation.
In reference to doctor’s order, for the joint inflammation patients, you are recommended to consume at least 90 milligrams of vitamin C.
Accordingly, Guava is the best source of Vitamin C which is easy to find.
Sea fish; sea fish is easy to be found like salmon and tuna.
The fish contains Omega 3 fat, which the body needs, also be a source of collagens that enhances the strength of joint includes cartilage.
Black sesame; you might not believe that the Black sesame contains both calcium and copper that helps strengthen the bone and motivates your body to produce collagen.
Moreover, the sesame also contains zinc that builds up the bone mass.
Ginger; ginger is counted as a herb that helps relieve Knee Osteoarthritis symptoms.
Aside from preventing joint inflammation, it supports the blood flow intensively and also contains antioxidants.
Tomato; it is well known as skin beauty source whereas it contains collagens.
Apart from nourishing your skin, it also helps fixing the cartridges and joints.
Soy milk; soy milk is another source of collagen.
The simplest way of consuming the collagen is to drink a proper amount of soymilk daily, which that helps increases the collagen in the body.
You can observe while leaving the milk for a long hour it will look like group of small gel bubbles.
Many people start to be aware of Knee Osteoarthritis only when they become elders.
It causes severe pain on knees and they might find it hard to live lives normally.
However, majority of us might not know that the sign of the Osteoarthritis can also happen during adolescence, for instance, a cracking sound of walking and the pain from long-hour sitting in theater or on airplane.
In fact, these symptoms imply you as one in a group of those suffering from Knee Osteoarthritis during young age.
In brief, here are 8 bad behaviors that put you at risk of Knees Osteoarthritis, in addition, an early notice can help you adjust the legs and lower the pain.
Sitting Cross-legged
Sitting in a cross-legged posture can put you at risk of long term condition known as Scoliosis whereas there is weight imbalance caused by bottoms movement which also makes the bone bent.
In fact, the posture can lock the knee move motion affects the knee joint directly.
However, mostly, the leg that crosses over the other side is always found having the pain before the other one.
Sleeping on soft mattress
Those who sleep in a fetal position or knee tucking have more chances of getting the Osteoarthritis than those sleeping with laying back posture, especially if you sleep in the fetal gesture all night in fluffy bed, the position even gives you more distortion of  knees shape.
Squat for a long time
Those who love doing several activities, such as, gardening, clothes washing or playing with pets need to be prepared for the Osteoarthritis during a young age since this posture severely squeezes the surface of the knee joint.
The best way is to sit on 6-7 feet plastic stool chair and try to stretch the legs for muscle relaxing.
Standing on high heel all day
Particularly, wearing high heels can put your weight on both tips of the feet instead of the heel.
Feet flexing or tension can injure your spine and knee joint by an improper position.
Therefore, we recommend you to take them off every hour to rest the feet.
Addicting to Soft drink
Drinking 1 can of soft drink provides the body the addition of 40 milligrams of phosphorus.
Your body has to take calcium from the bones in order to keep the balance of increased phosphorus.
This is a reason why soft drink cause you Osteoarthritis.
Playing Soccer
Many sports have a negative effect to your knees especially when there is an improper posture or long duration in a round.
The soccer is the number one sport that causes players osteoarthritis.
According to a use of knee from different types of sports tells us that “Soccer” has high chance of knee injury which then causes knee osteoarthritis.
Drinking too much coffee
Some research said caffeine in coffee might obstruct the body from absorption the calcium in food.
It forces the body to excrete more calcium via urination.
Every glass of coffee you have can make you lose 5 milligrams of calcium in the body.
Being Overweight
Knee Osteoporosis refers to degeneration of the knee joint’s surface which contains thin cartilages and each of them locates at different story of knee bones.
Accordingly, the more you weight, the more pressure on your knees which will destroy your knee joints faster.
We do not only want you to lose your weight for the knee joints, but also for your look as well.
Everyone could have a time when elders in a house start to complain about their leg pain, some say they hear a cracking sound coming from their knees, while some might have an imbalance walking and bowed legs, for that reason, theses are 6 indications that help you assess the intensity  of symptoms by yourself when it is time for operation.
Chronic Knee Joint Pain
Actually it takes more than 6 months until those pain can obviously affect your daily life like walking.
Once it become intense, you might need to use some walk-aid equipment, for example, canes or walking stick.
In fact, another way to observe the pain is when you walk up stairs or walk down the stairs as well as standing after done sitting on a chair.
Chronic Pain at day and night
Anyone who has been suffered from moderate and severe knee pain even while not doing any activity.
The pain might disturb you both at day and night.
This is a sign of severe knee osteoarthritis.
You better go to see a doctor to receive a proper urgent treatment.
Unimproved Symptoms after Medical Treatment
Patients with chronic knee arthritis; despite of having Physical Therapy and medicine, including trying to change some improper behaviors in daily life.
All cannot improve the symptom, accordingly, a surgery might be the right option of patient’s treatment.
Bowed legs
When it is obvious that the legs are bent away from the original site and disorder seems to intensify and start to cause you a bad impact on the knee joint.
This might be the right time for your knee surgery as leaving your legs bending can pressure another leg that carries your body.
It is considered as a major cause of knee osteoarthritis on both sides of the legs.
Knee friction & Joint Loose
Feeling your knees friction or having loose knee joint might cause you an obstacle while moving the body such as, bending your knees or stretching them.
In this case, you are recommended to see a doctor whereas it causes nearby organs other related symptoms.
Unable to cope with the pain
Once you are unable to stand the pain as well as having restrictions on taking medicines including complications caused by painkillers.
Here is the time when the surgery seem to be the solution.
However, these are only information for your basic self-assessment.
Seeing doctors is still a must because they can provide a proper diagnosis also plan for your treatment precisely.
The word “Knee Osteoarthritis” can make us think of elders as people only perceive that it happens only in the elders.
Conversely, people who are under 60 years of age recently can have more chances to experience the Knee Osteoarthritis as well, caused by various factors.
In fact, a number of patients now keep on increasing.
In this article, we would like to let you take a look at the causes of a disease thoroughly.
Injury
People who have experienced knee injury like athletes, most of them will have problems with ruptured tendon, according to abnormal or unstable knee movement with bone fracture; these might be a cause of Knee Osteoarthritis.
Furthermore, in case of fractured bone spread into the knee joint; if the bones are connected improperly and there is erosion of cartilage skin.
Certainly, this case mainly causes joint surface abnormality along with friction which is a source of cracking sound while moving the body, including inflammation, pain on the knees as well as knee stiff, and finally results in bowlegs shape.
Chronic Arthritis
The chronic arthritis is frequently found in people, for instance, Rheumatoid, those suffering from this disease basically already have a general joint pain caused by the abnormality of the knee joint’s inner tissues; Synovial membrane.
The membrane will constantly get thicker and be more inflamed making your body produce too much water in the joint, then results in the Chronic Arthritis, cartilage’s skin damage, swollen joint and tense.
Unwary Use by Improper Postures
Another important cause is improper posture.
Some might use the knee joint too much which makes it degenerate before the right time, such as, lifting heavy stuff, kneeling or squatting.
These acts cause more pressure inside the knee joint.
However, if you do these mentioned behaviors frequently, there might be more chances for you to have the Knee Osteoarthritis in young age.
Sometimes, we might wonder about grandma’s bowlegs and cracking sound of grandpa walk as something that catches our attentions like whether a cause is joint diseases, known as “Osteoarthritis” or not.
In fact, today we have all answers provided below for you, by a list of Osteoarthritis symptoms we would like you to observe yourself as well as be able to receive a screening in time.
A sound of the joint while moving.
Actually, the crack sound might come from various causes, for example, cartilage injury by accident or by improper workout postures.
Both guide you to know that when there is a friction of the Cartilage, according to rough skin of the joint and the hard using of the knee joint, they can cause you the injury, which might be a sign of having Osteoarthritis whereas patients with a disease usually diagnose joint together with the mentioned symptoms.
Abnormal bowlegs and walking difficulty
In this group, according to the bow, it causes the patients imbalanced knees and unstable walking as the length of both legs.
However, during a long walk, chronic pain might occur from the inside of both knees and locates at a specific spot.
It can start from one side of the knee, then spread to another side.
Running or being hit can cause more pain to them, in addition, mostly the bowlegs are connected by one to another as mentioned information, which makes people decide to weigh their walking more on a good leg and eventually both become bowlegs with severe soreness and at the same time create patients more difficulties for their walks.
Stiff Knees Joint Symptom
The stiff causes you inability to stretch, this symptom happens due to the tense and stiff inside the joint.
The unequal joint skins can cause extra joint bones protrusion, while broken pieces of the cartilage will obstruct joint movement, and lastly, nearby muscles will start to contract.
In fact, in first stages you might not feel such symptoms until they create worse condition and result in the stiff knee joint.
Feel the pain after pressing
Another sign that might happen is the pain when you start to press on the knee joint, for example, in case of joint inflammation, you will find the pain after pressing during a walk or while the body is moving.
At the same time, pressing on swollen or enlarged joints which are caused by water retention also express the pain, however, in some cases might have thicker joint tissues which gives you feeling of touching fluffy spongy.
You have been married for many years but may wonder why still does not get pregnant along with abnormal menstruation.
In fact, many couple may not realize that the abnormal menstruation could be a trigger of this situation.
Sign of Abnormal Menstruation
Normally, woman's body has ovulation within every 28 days which menstruation comes within 21 or 35 days or we can say the menstruation will happen in every 23 to 35 days.
As long as it is seemed to remain normal this way, there is no abnormal sign to be concerned.
On the other hand, if the menstruation time keeps delaying until 30-40 days, 2 months or in certain people may have it within 26 days then change to 40 days and then becomes 30 days, this could be a sign of abnormality.
What are The Causes of Abnormality?
Sometimes having abnormal menstruation is not concerned as extreme danger since it can be caused by illness and stress.
However, once those are disappeared, the menstruation then will come back to the normal state.
Another cause of having abnormal menstruation might be the hormonal imbalance which affect to the ovulation.
However, the factors of this could be various.
Why Abnormal Menstruation Causes Infertility?
The abnormal menstruation indicates whether your ovulation function normally.
In fact, if the ovulation time is quite short along with less amount of eggs means it also lowers a chance of your pregnancy.
The Importance of "Ovulation"
Having abnormal menstruation is just one part that can make pregnancy become difficult.
Nevertheless, the most important thing is "ovulation."
As long as your ovulation is normal, chances of having a baby will increase.
In contrast, if it become abnormal (No menstruation and Unstable time of it monthly), this might be a sign of the absence of ovulation which is not good for you.
If you notice that there will be several menstrual disorders, you are recommended to seek a doctor for accurate diagnosis to ensure whether you are getting in the risk of "Fertility Situation".
Hearing the word “surgery” can drive people frightened about its process due to the imagination even though today, there is a new advanced innovation which effectively helps increase more accuracy of the surgery, especially for total artificial knee replacement surgery.
In the process, we now use the computer technology along with minimally invasive surgery to ensure that patients will certainly have their normal lives back.
The beginning of “Surgery”
The first Total Knee replacement started in 1968, around 40 years ago, from that point of time, the surgical technique has been developed to enhance a doctor skill includes quality of artificial knees to extend more stable duration of the artificial knee.
In fact, the total knee replacement is a surgery whereby the doctor needs to cut some broken surfaces out of knee joint and replace them by a new shape of artificial knee.
Technology development
Today, the Total Knee Replacement has fully improved.
An intention is to give back patients normal lives by the best resulting.
The assessment of process comes from faster recovery and no complications after the surgery, including a good quality of the artificial knee and duration of it after procedure.
In addition, technology helps increase the surgery precision that suits for individual as there is a medical tool which provides a navigator so that the doctor can locate the artificial knee joint and finally provides patients the best result.
Furthermore, the minimally invasive surgery will give them less pain, revival faster as well as shortened hospital stay.
Get more confidence due to Doctor’s expertise
The doctor expertise is also one of important factors in Total Knee Replacement surgery, in fact, certain doctors can only do this type of surgery, for example, the doctors who can operate the Total Knee Replacement surgery by using computer system are those who have gained a lot of experiences, and be familiar with the system as well as can provide up-to-date information to their patients, and answer all questions they have which help bring up more confidence in them.
Everything starts from “yourself”
Even though you already have a professional doctor supporting your sickness, including high standard hospital, high quality artificial knees, in fact, these are just additional factors of your treatment process.
However, the most important factors are mental and physical’s readiness of patient as the best surgery result comes after their preparation.
The mentioned factors affect how the patients will feel during operation.
Have you ever tried to observe yourself or people around you by checking their personalities?
Sometimes they might not seem to be very attractive or charming by their improper postures, such as ,waist and unbalanced shoulders with a bending-body while walking.
These characters can cause them Scoliosis, according to Spinal surgeon from Orthopedic Center, Phyathai 3 Hospital, Dr.Sombat Kunakornsawat said; this disease is one of the most frequently diseases found in people, majority we overlook about it.
80-Percent of the cases has no distinct cause
Dr.Sombat explained that the Scoliosis is a medical condition in which a person’s spine bends to the side, and when it is measured by the Cobb angle, the bending can make more than 10 degree.
However, over 80 percent of the cases has no distinct cause called as Idiopathic Scoliosis, while approximately 10 percent of people having the disease during the age of 10-15 are believed to be caused by genetic transfer.
Simple self-observation by following these steps;
There are 2 ways to monitor yourself :
You have to stand and look back to check some abnormalities of the body, such as, an unbalanced shoulder, an unbalanced curve of the scapula or waist.
Stand up again, put your feet close together and bend your body forward,  both hands reach to the ground, this posture is called Adam’s forward bending test.
Later, you will see that the curve of your back is unbalanced known as Rip Hump.
Not Every Case need Surgical Treatment
First of all, patients and their families should truly understand about the Scoliosis,such as, stages or phases of the disease to  support a doctor during the spinal change observation.
Dr.Sombat stated that the patients might have to wear a brace to protect the spine, which takes about 23 hours a day; the brace is allowed to be taken off during a shower.
In fact, this back support will be applied to those having mild scoliosis with slightly bending, at the same time there must no nerves abnormality happen to the patients.
Moreover, for kids, they are required to wear it until their body stop developing, during that time lower an hour of wearing till the doctor confirms about their spinal conditions, for example, the bending will not be increased after, meaning they have to stop wearing it.
In addition, for patients whose bodies have fully developed, the brace will not be used due to a full development of their bodies.
Doctor’s expertise is a key for surgical treatment
For the selection of surgery Dr. Sombat said, it is based on several factors, such as, the flexibility and the spinal curve.
The doctor has to understand the goal of surgery by having conversation with patients and their families.
However, the most important key is the expertise of doctor in order to provide them the best results.
At present,  the medical treatment is developed to helps process the Scoliosis treatment.
However, the treatment will be even more effective if you are treated during  the right time.
Most of you might think that the spinal disease only happens with elders and overlook your bad daily behaviors which these can cause you the disease without realizing.
However, what are those behaviors that lead you to the abnormalities.
In this article, all information and answers are provided by  Dr.Theerachai Panitphong, a neurological specialists or spinal surgeon from Neurology and spine center, Phyathai 3 hospital, so that you can prepare and protect yourself from the disease.
Beware of “Herniated Disc” if you sit and work for a long period of time
Sitting both in front of the computer for a long time or having a long drive without stretching the body or frequently lifting heavy stuff, in fact, all can lead you to Herniated disc.
According to mentioned details, the doctor has explained the cause of the disease that is based on the part in which the disease is occurred;
Herniated disc around the lower back affects the nervous system in the waist and legs.
You might experience irregular pain on the waist especially when you stand, bent or perk including numbness on the feet and legs, for severe condition patients might feel paralyzed as well.
Herniated disc around the neck affects the pain on the neck.
You might feel hard to move your neck which might spread to one of your arms.
Some cases might have numbness on the tip of fingers which later spreads to the palms.
Sitting cross-legged cause you the Scoliosis
Dr.Theerachai said the sitting makes your weight pressure on one side of the bottom, causing numbness and pain as well as bending the bone curve which affects you in long term.
Accordingly, every time while doing sit-working, you better sit by laying your back on the backrest in order to lower the pain.
Bending your head to see a screen also gives you a risk of Herniated disc
If you have to work in front of the computer all day ,you might feel the pain on the both side of scapulas like someone is pressing hard on your neck and back.
The Dr.Theerachai spoke that this causes by fatigue of your muscle and tendons.
Additionally,in case of you do not adjust your seat and screen level by setting them with the same angle or position.
This forces you to bend over to see the screen most of the time, which is a cause of  Cervical Spondylosis.
Therefore, you should rest your eyes by changing your sitting posture  frequently and locate the screen in the right angle.
Overweight…put you at risk of Degenerative disc
Having obesity or being overweight, both make your body carry too much weight of the body and cause you spinal pain.
You might have risk of disc degeneration.
The doctor added that those who have an average weight, there might create the risk due to several reasons, for instance, long hour sitting in front of computer, lifting heavy stuff, wrong sitting, improper walking or standing, including extreme sport playing or not having enough exercise as well as age increasing.
If you notice some risk behaviours, then start to change yourself.
However, if there are some disorders, you should visit a doctor for a further diagnosis whereas, receiving  late detection might cause you having a treatment by surgery.
Back pain you are facing may not just a regular pain of falling out from a pillow as this could be a sign of cervical vertebra dysfunction as it compresses on nerves causes numbness and muscular weakness.
A doctor may provide a surgery promptly but it is not as scary as you think.
A neurosurgeon specialized in neurology and spine surgery at Phyathai 3 hospital has explained about some techniques of minimally invasive surgery using Microscope as follows.
The Cervical vertebra is as essential as the brain
Dr. Theerachai explained that the cervical vertebra is an essential organ that makes the neck move into different directions independently such as bending down, turning left or right, or stretching.
Beside, inside the cervical vertebra, there are spinal nerves compared as a motherboard, it controls the body motion as well as perception and feeling of the legs and arms.
“The cervical vertebra works as water source of spinal nerve system.
It is as vital as the brain.
For that reason, a treatment must be accurate and precise” said the doctor.
Surgery, the best option of delivering great result when disorders occur
When the spine is having some abnormal signs, Dr. Theerachai said that surgery could be the best treatment.
However, there is currently a technology that provides small surgical wound called "Minimally Invasive Spine Surgery".
A surgeon would apply this approach using a Microscope with high magnification to see more detail in organs during the process including Navigator used for calculating a spine location.
PROs of getting spine surgery via microscope
Due to the use of high technology, the doctor stated that it assists the process to be more simple and precise.
For that reason, patients receive safe treatment, less pain, fast recovery with 2-3 centimeters of a surgical wound.
Moreover, risks from heavy blood loss, the pain would not be happening regarding more advantages of the technology that provides more effective detail than a regular operation that process requires only eye vision.
To avoid spinal diseases, everyone should take care of health well, do not sit in one posture for a long hour as it could weaken the muscle and do not forget to exercise regularly.
Moreover, if there are some disorders occur, seeing a doctor to receive proper treatment and screening is higly recommended.
When there is spinal pain, it means you probably face spinal problems.
What you should do first is to change some behaviors that lead you to this difficulty, such as, sitting, walking as well as sleeping.
Proper postures or motion are optimal changes for you.
They relieve and prevent the spine from distortion include protect the body from compression caused by pressure.
Moreover, what you cannot overlook is “exercise” whereas it can help strengthen your back muscle well.
What is Isometric Exercise?
It is a muscle flexing exercise, which suits for those having chronic back pain.
The flexing of the muscles is done by contraction at any spot of the body, you have to hold it awhile within a short period.
During that time, tension from that body part will go against another, but motionless action, for example, making fist of one hand go against walls or squeezing objects intensively or pulling a chair in which you sit, this is like the body fight that goes against itself.
Strengthen the body by sitting
According to this type of workout, it does not require motion, so that patients can do it easily, for example, pushing against walls, squeezing objects, fisting or lifting a chair.
You can do it every day, 5-10 seconds in each time, however, do not hold your breath while practicing it.
In fact, doing this daily helps strengthen every part of the body basing on postures, for instance, palm goes against the face, which sends a flexing to your neck directly.
Patients during rehabilitation can also do some Isometric Exercises
The Isometric Exercise fits in with people having busy schedules or a small room to workout.
It only requires short time, and you also can do it everywhere.
Moreover, the athletes that are treated during the rehabilitation to recover from injury and those who only can move some part of their bodies as well as suffering from neck pain can also do the workout.
On the contrary, patients with heart diseases and hypertension are not suggested to do the exercise, whereas the contraction from the flexing can make the heart function intensively with hypertension, for that case might lead them in danger.
This article does not intend to tell you that dangerous careers which cause spine injuries are building cleaners and stunt performer in a film, conversely, general professions we mainly know can also be the cause.
However, these are 6 lists of professions that can possibly bring you spine injuries:
Graphic designer  This includes a job that requires you to stay in front of computer in long hours, for instance, a designer, a writer and office workers.
The injury can go worst by wrong postures, for example, hunchback sitting or cross-legged gesture.
However, when you quickly stand after sitting for so long that might cause bone friction.
The body then will produce a new bone growing from the joint to replace a damage.
Sometimes, growth-bones can have an excess size, which later might cause spinal cord compression and pain.
Flight attendant  This mainly focus on females who need to wear high heels for a charm and great personality, besides, long-hour walking or sitting in airplane might also cause damage to the spine.
Most of symptoms such as, back pain from facing up and down to lift luggage for passengers can also lead them to severe neck pain or shoulder pain.
Receptionist  Those who require a long-hour standing for customer service like shopping mall or hotel, an improper posture might lead them to spine distortion, including the disk and joints compression.
Event Organizer Those who have to arrange events or activities, sometimes they need to lift up heavy stuff.
This improper motion can also harm the spine without realizing.
Athlete  Even though athletes have a very strong body, their spines can also have some injuries from accidents or intense workout.
To avoid any risk of getting spinal pain, you should regularly exercise to make the muscles strong and to be able to protect the spine, at the same time, do not forget to control your weight as well whereas it helps reduce risks of spine-related diseases.
Sleep Deprivation or Working Load might cause Body soreness.
Sometimes, if you are one of those having symptom of irregular chronic pain and always end up taking pain killers or muscle relaxants, then what you should beware of is that the symptoms you are having might relate to spinal diseases.
List of Symptoms that you should visit a doctor
The lower back pain along with such symptoms, for example, muscular weakness on legs.
Back pain along with lumbar pain and legs.
The pain remains for 3 months
Acute lumbar pain which causes you a difficulty in living.
The injury pain, such as, sports injury
Chronic Lumbar Pain causes you these following diseases:
Herniated Nucleus Pulposus - this disease has severe condition and might happen suddenly, for example, lumbar pain on both sides of the back, which usually occurs while sitting or bending the body over along with muscular weakness.
Lumbar Spinal Stenosis – this disease is similar to the Herniated Nucleus Pulposus, the difference is that at the spinal canal, there is stenosis.
However, symptom occurs irregularly and might gradually get worse, for instance, the chronic pain on the middle of lumbar that happens when you stand or have a short walk, which might spread to the legs by numbness and muscular weakness.
Herniated Disc - chronic pain might occur after you move the body constantly for example, bending forward to pick up object, facing up or walking.
These postures might cause pain on the back including numbness on both legs along with feeling heavy on the waist and groins, at the same time, severe condition can occur and leads you to the inability to control the excretion of urine and feces.
Cervical spondylosis - symptom usually happens to the neck, legs or arms.
A pain on your neck might lead to chronic pain on the shoulders as well as the occiput.
At the same time, it might happen to your arms including elbows and fingers by numbness or muscular weakness, causing problems with writing and playing music instruments.
However, if they affect your legs that might cause imbalance walking along with failing, also, slow walking with abnormal skin tension is included.
Therefore, in case of not being certain about your neck pain whether a cause is the spine or not.
It is better for you to receive a proper screening, such as, MRI that provides you a clear picture of spinal structure and also supports an accuracy of diagnosis and treatment.
Patients with final stage of cancer definitely cannot get over thought of death.
Currently, in medical profession there is new treatment technique called “Targeted Therapy”.
According to the technique, in this article Dr.Prasan Kachonrattanadet, specializing in cancerology, from Phyathai 2 hospital has confirmed that it really can prolong the end stage of cancer including lifetime of patients.
Why does the Targeted Therapy always be applied to patients with last stage of cancer?
In the past, doctors would say that those having the end stage of cancer could live approximately in 6 months or longer around 10 months if they had chemotherapy.
However, since the Targeted Therapy had been innovated and improved, a number of living extended, the patients could live longer, for example, lung cancer patients after receiving this innovated therapy along with other treatments, on average of their lifetimes  after treatment was 2 and 3 years longer, which could be said that the Targeted Therapy helps prolong the patients’ lives while the percentage of cure is still low.
Moreover,  there are many types of cancer that are treated by Targeted Therapy in order to increase more chances of cure, such as, certain types of Breast cancers.
TRUE or NOT: a chance of cure is possible when cancer found in the first stage
In fact, this statement is still correct, for instance, in breast cancer patients, a disease can easily be found whereas people are able to do self-detection by groping for lumps on  their breasts and by receiving annual screening.
However, around 60-70 percent of the breast cancer patients who come to see a doctor are those already reaching 1-3 stages.
Conversely, for colon cancer patients, the first stage cannot be detected by themselves due to symptoms are still not being shown unless they receive a screening by doctors, which is expensive.
Therefore, mostly a cancer will be detected during  last stage which more than 40-50 percent of patients normally seek a medical attention when it is too late.
Are there any limitation for the Targeted Therapy?
One of limitation is drug resistance.
Some medicines might work at the beginning, but when it takes a year longer, the body then causes drug resistance.
According to that, doctors have to cut some tissues to test and look for new method of Targeted Therapy, and if symptoms are not improved, then they have to provide patients Chemotherapy.
In fact, to provide the targeted treatment, doctors can do it along with other treatment like chemo or only apply it alone to patients, also they can provide patients several types of the targeted therapy at once to cover all locations that have to be cured as well.
Moreover, what we should know is that cancer cell naturally has several growing mechanisms, not only from 1 to 2 to 3 to 4 but it can be from A to B as well.
Sometimes when doctors get rid of this type of mechanism, the cancer cell then start to mutate.
Accordingly, there is no medication that can completely kill it, especially in the end stage.
Can the Targeted Therapy be applied to all kind of cancers?
The Targeted Therapy has been developed for more than 16-17 years.
From that time until now, there are a lot of medications innovated to treat the cancer.
Although they cannot be applied to all types of the cancer, they can respond to them more.
Message from the doctor…
Cancer symptom is various .
Most of the time, the symptom will be based on the part of body where the cancer starts.
Generally, the normal symptoms we can find are Blood in the feces or urine, chronic wound and being unable to eat as well as vomiting.
Meanwhile, blood in feces might cause by Hemorrhoids while, the blood in urine might only be the Bladder Inflammation, including sudden weight loss which might come from Thyrotoxicosis.
Consequently, as a doctor he does not want you to get too stress about it.
It can simply be said that if you have chronic abnormalities and being unable to find an exact cause, then you should better visit a doctor.
If the doctor also cannot find the cause, you can assume that it could be a sign of cancer.
Normally when we mention about Cancer Remedy Process; we are familiar with “Radiation Therapy” and “Chemo Therapy” Recently, there is a new alternative treatment for patients with cancer called “Targeted Therapy” a direct treatment being customized for individuals.
Dr.Prasan Kachonrattanadet, Oncologist at Phyathai 2 Hospital will clarify the differences between this new method and traditional one.
What are the processes of Targeted Therapy?
The doctor explained that before patients receive the treatment, doctors will examine the person's cancer cells to diagnose whether there are specific molecules or proteins in that patient, later, compare to the drugs that have already been approved and a shot will be provided into cancer cells directly.
Each patient is treated by different types of medicines even though they suffer from the same type of cancer.
How do doctors consider the most optimal treatment being suited patients?
In Targeted Therapy, we have a process called Precision Medicine, which the doctors need to take several samples of cancer cells from many patients in order to analyze protein, molecules and genomes.
One example of a process is "lung cancer", after taking lung cancer cells from a large number of patients to check.
We would see that in patients with lung cancer, most cases what are the disorders that often be found, and then classify as a group, for example, a group of patients with abnormal proteins.
Abnormal gene will be caught, and drug design process will be made by genetic engineer afterward.
Some medicines are difficult to produce; hence, certain genetic abnormalities cannot be treated.
The differences of “Targeted Therapy” and “Traditional Treatment”
There are three main types of cancer treatment in a past: surgery, radiation and chemo therapy.
Radiation and surgery, both presented the way of Targeted Therapy, which mean that the treatment is provided to cancer location directly such as cutting out the cancer from its site.
Nevertheless, Chemo Therapy contains toxic which affects the cells, but Targeted Therapy stops the growth of cancer cells at the time that they are unable to develop, the cells will eventually die.
Moreover, the chemo is considered as non-targeted treatment, for instance, lung cancer patients have different cancer cells, but merely 3-4 of approved drugs can be used.
This imply defines us that Targeted Therapy is like a Tailor- Made design, a cloth design that gives customers the most fit suit and dress individually in contrast to a dozen old fashioned garments.
Why does “Targeted Therapy” become the better solution?
Chemo Therapy works by destroying the cell division no matter the cell is a cancer cell or a normal cell.
Conversely, Targeted Therapy is developed to prevent any side effect on normal cells, however, the Targeted treatment still has some slightly side effects, but the chance of severity is less.
Before you take a test or mammograms offered by a doctor, a proper Breast Self-Exam is necessary.
As soon as a patient finds the unusual thing happen, the chance to get rid of cancer will reach closer to a success.
When we should have Breast Self-Exam?
Every month
7-10 days after menstruation counting from the first day of period
Same day in every month, in case of menopause
How do we check our breast?
Stand in front of mirror, observe the breasts; size, shape, skin tone, position, nipples and compares to the month before.
Put your hand above your head, slowly turn around, reobserve the nipples and the side of your breasts
Hands on the hips, the elbows turned outwards, slightly bent your body to the front, see the changes.
Use your hand to gently squeeze the nipples to see if there are any bleeding ,pus or  liquid.
Grope your breast form collarbone area, use your left hand touch the right breast.
And the index, the middle and the ring fingers lightly press on the skin and gradually press harder until your fingers can feel the rib.
Roll it all around your breast.
The important thing is to grope until reach the armpit area.
Then change the side, do it in the same way.
After finish rolling in standing position, feel and roll the breast in lying on side, use pillow to underlay, then do the rolling as step 5.
Need to see a doctor when the following sign are happened .....
Lump or thickening (breast, underarm)
Red color appears on skin, or feeling hotter
Extend of pore, similar as orange skin
Shrinking skin
Swelling skin
More pain
Have some rashes on breast area.
Dent of nipples
Abnormal nipple direction
Bleeding from nipple
Chronic lesion on the breast area
Four steps to turn debt crisis into millionaire opportunity
Everywhere we turn, people keep talking about “investment”.
Of course, it sounds interesting and is something we want to stay updated.
However, many people would turn away from this topic because they are still struggling with the debt they have.
How can they possibly find money for investment?
Well, everything is possible if you understand.
Do not give up the dream to become a millionaire simply because you are “in debt”.
There are ways to “get out of debt” without suffering the “painful cutback”.
Plus, you have a chance to build assets and save money for investment.
You need to follow these simple steps:
Stop creating more debts.
The more debts you create, the more installment you will make.
Then, you cannot break away from the vicious cycle.
Most importantly, you need to make an income and expenditure account to cut the unnecessary expense.
This will certainly help you pay off the debt faster.
Classify the debt whether it is in informal sector, credit card debt, cash card debt, or others to make you see the clear picture and better plan the repayment.
Combine the debts.
This step is very interesting because we will manage the existing debts by “transferring the debts” from many sources and combine them at one bank, which may offer lower interest rate.
This will help you pay less monthly installment, have more surplus a month, and manage the debt more easily.
Invest for yourself.
After you paid off the debt, now it is time to pay for yourself instead of someone else.
Then, you will convert the debt into savings, which will multiply into millions.
However, only savings are not enough these days because the inflation will depreciate the value of money.
So, starting the investment such as in different “funds” is a good solution.
Some funds not only yield high return, but also offers tax incentive.
This is just the initial step.
If having more savings and studying about the investment, you will have a chance to earn higher return and easily become “a millionaire”.
We can guarantee that it is not just your “imagination”.
“Poor When Old” is the major concern for Thailand
Share
“Poor When Old” is the major concern for Thailand
By : Nipapant Poonsatiansup CFP ฎ financial consultant
Thailand is entering the long term of “Aging Society” and will face a real major challenging problem.
According to the United Nations universal definition a country with over 10 percents of population at 60 years of age or over will be recognized for becoming the Aging Society and furthering as the “Aged Society” when its population of over 60 years old has increased up to 20 percent.
In the case of Thailand, at the end of 2015 when the total population were 65,203,979, those over 60 years old were of 10,569,021 or 16.2 percent of the whole people.
By this indication it has been expected that Thailand will become the Aged Society by the year 2021.
Apparently, among 4 working people there is one old age person for them to taking care of by which the number of working people will decrease due to the continual increasing number of the old.
Therefore, without well retirement plans we will surely face the problem of “Poor When Old” since we can no longer expect good caring from our children the way it used to be in those former days (less people get married with less children).
Moreover, the state welfare scheme may become undependable by the higher number of the old, less people of working age, less collected taxation, insufficient budgeting and over burden.
The survey in 2014 conducted by the National Statistical Office (NCO) revealed the following sources of income to enable living of senior citizens, namely:
Children support 36.7%
Employment income 33.9%
Subsistence Allowance 14.8%
Pension fund, retirement benefit4.9%
Spouse sharing  4.3%
Interest from saving accounts
and money from assets selling 3.9%
This indicates dependable sources of incomes for 55.8% of the olds while approximately 34% of them are working for their own living.
In conclusion, without the aforementioned supports more than 90% of senior citizen shall have to work to feed themselves.
There is no retirement for them.
But the fact is no one would plan for his/her own failure.
Failure is actually the outcome of no planning, as most people are still without retirement plan at all.
Why most Thai peoples do overlook retirement plans?
Well, apart from seeing it as a long way to go they still hope to continue living on available state welfare schemes.
According to the World Bank report on “Live Long and Proper: Aging in East Asia and Pacific” based on the theme who would be responsible to cover the cost of living after retirement, the outcomes are of two controversial reactions:
In the developed countries – South Korea, Taiwan and Singapore more than half of respondents identified it would be retirees themselves.
Whereas in developing countries China, Indonesia, Philippines, Vietnam and Thailand more than half of respondents indicated their governments as the responsible body; meaning people never plan for retirement earlier since they are obsessed by the mindset of depending on others.
But can we really rely on other supports, whether it is from our children, spouse or those state welfare projects?
Of course, it is not possible.
The social, economic and population base is of extraordinary changing, comparing to the past.
The new normal is that no one would be expected to look after you.
Therefore, retirement plans should be of prioritization to welcome happy living so that you would not be a real burden for those around you.
The financial plan for retirement funding should be of the possible soonest starting.
Do not wait until it becomes “Poor When Old” instead of “Ready Before Old”
STORIES & TIPS
Teach Child to be Richman: getting rich by gifted-cash from relatives for Chinese New Year
Share
Teach Child to be Richman: getting rich by gifted-cash from relatives for Chinese New Year
The Chinese New Year festival is the gold moment for our children to get gift in cash from their older relatives by which they’ll spend to get things they love to own.
But parents who care for money spending like us would prefer to see our children become the richman in the future to come.
We will, thus, teach them to beware what good money spending would be.
But teaching alone wouldn’t enough.
We should also be good example for them by having them become well-aware of spending disciplinary with what they’ve received for Chinese New Year cash.
4 Pig Saving Boxes: the small-richman guardian
All parents as we are should train our children how to handle the 4 Pig Saving Boxes namely the Saving Pig, the Spending Pig, the Donating Pig and the Investing Pig to have children appreciate that money is not only for spending, but it’s also of other benefits including:
1. Saving pig: the “saving money” portion for which our children should be told that it’s for future plan for education or other things they’d like to get.
Parents should take their children to open a saving account for regular monthly saving.
2. Spending pig: this money is for children spending either for sweets or toys of which they should put in a deposit account for an easy withdrawal.
3. Donating pig: children should be trained for giving regular money donation to other people so that they would be grown up with such a positive thinking.
4. Investing pig: the last box is the most important one since it would teach our children in 2 ways of how to become a richman in the future.
For parent: put children’s gifted cash for saving through life insurance products of a higher return i.e. saving insurance with both life protection and a higher return than the regular saving policy.
For children:  parents should train children to be a tiny start-up by a small amount of such gifted cash.
They can as well give a small hiring money for certain household works by their children, or from the family business.
Our children, thereby would learn about their money management while being proud of it.
And this is the technic practiced by every richman on this earth.
(Then, once all of our children can follow the aforementioned technics the gifted cash for Chinese New Year today and other years to come would become a tiny start for any small child to become a happy richman in the future.
But, remember that you are the good lesson learned for your children, since parents are the “first money teacher for children!
Hostel Decode : Location, Location, Location?
Share
Hostel Decode : Location, Location, Location?
Looking up in all real estate bibles , ‘LOCATION’ is the Achillean point whether or not your hostel is surviving or falling!
All along your left and right of the BTS lines, every building been sealed with sold while the rest unsold’s price has been skyward incredibly high.
However when there is a will , there must be a way : super premium location may not be the ultimate truth!
‘Travelling’ ignites travellers’ dreams to enclose in their pockets.
One of the dreams they have grabbed home is to transfer a residence or a building into a ‘hostel’ just to embrace the experience of extending hospitality to foreign guests.
Let’s imagine of 35 million foreigners arriving at Thai airports, some waiting with luggage for limosines from luxury hotels to pick them up, others marching under the tour leader’s flag to check in at designated hotels according to the tour programme, yet there is another grand group with big backpack ready to scatter around according to the applications for their advance self-reservation points.
The latter group has long been with Thai tourism and still going strong in a long future run.
Hostelworld, a top line of all hostel agencies worldwide, a source of more than 15,000 networks has stated an apparent point that during the first half of 2017, total reservations of hostel and economy accommodation had skyrocketed to 3.9 million transactions.
The increase was 11% with Asian accommodation engagement of 21 %, whereas Thailand was one of the main destinations from almost 1,300 systematic hostels in 53 provinces.
Koa San road has been incapable to monopolize backpackers as in the past with a matter of fact that there are friendly rate accommodations through all the city areas from Sukumvit, Silom, Siam Square etc which beckon on tourists to come over.
The previous hostel fixed formula has then adjusted to an ‘open’ location as much as ‘opened mind’ of new trendy tourists who likely to shake off their tiredness and walk a bit further in exchange for a new horizon of worthy experiences.
The definition of best hostel locations, on the other hand, are far different from the 4-5 stars hotels as the victorious hostel locations deem not to be situated just in the heart of the city.
‘Mass Transportation’ plays most important role in pricing with the favour of the shortest walking distance.
However, hostels situated down by the alleys may also win tourists’ heart with the closer communities nearby enchanting visitors with their immaculated environment.
Most of the hostels’ clients have sorted after and been granted with this kind of spell while the luxury hotels fail to offer.
Please keep in mind that all tourists are not party animals.
Some are ‘peaceful’ and some are ‘explorer’.
A charming hidden place at the end of the alley or the suburban area is worth steadfast roaming around if that hostel is a true oasis of heart and soul.
Besides, location is not always the factor easily to ‘promote’ or ‘demote’ the hostels.
The primary factor genuienly consists of a maintaining of ‘cleanliness’ and ‘security’ which had been determinated the highest review scores or the switch-off of rising star hostels already in the past.
Therefore, most importantly, your dreamed-hostel must not situated in risky areas.
The investment on security system to protect life and assets, the separation of common area and residential area, keys for guests only, big lockers with entire lock system, all of these modern technology will sustain trendy hostels in centralizing all ‘crossing points’ of security into one intelligent key which comes in form of key card, key chain or wrist band to please the new generation after all.
Lastly, the investment in the owner’s ‘well acquainted’ area is an advantage in order to feather on salable highlight points of the area.
A narrative story of the local nearby such as the signature dishes within the area, the coffee shop not to be missed or the superb neighborhood museum should be inserting in.
The flourish of hostel business depends on these mere factors.
No need to rent the most expensive building on a main road and work your fingers to the bone just to return the capital unknown when to be recovered.
Investment
Bonds
A bond is a long-term debt instrument issued by a government or state enterprise to borrow funds from the public.
The issuer is the debtor and each investor serves as a creditor.
Share
Investment Details
Contact us
Related Investment Products
Investment Details
A bond is a long-term debt instrument issued by a government or state enterprise.
The issuer will repay the face value of the bond to the investor when it reaches maturity.
During the term of the bond, the issuer will periodically pay interest to the investor.
Predictable return
Predictable return
The investor can forecast the total return of a debenture according to different investment conditions in order to invest appropriately.
Low risk
Low risk
A bond is the least risky type of investment because the issuer is a government or state enterprise.
Frequently Asked Questions About Deposit
Share
Deposit
Contact Us
Deposit
What documents are needed to open a savings account?
You can use your government-issued I.D. card, driver's license, etc. to open an account at any convenient SCB branch.
What should I do when my account passbook is full?
Please bring your full passbook in to exchange for a new one at any convenient SCB branch.
How can I freeze my account or bank card?
Please call the SCB Call Center at 02-777-7777 and press 1.
How do I change the personal information registered for my account?
You can change your personal information at any SCB branch.
Please bring a government-issued I.D. card, such as your national I.D. or driver's license, to confirm your identity.
Fixed income Fund taxation, how does it affect investors?
Share
Fixed income Fund taxation, how does it affect investors?
Article by: Nipapun Poonsateansup CFP®   Independent Finance Planner
The Cabinet agreed to amend the law on taxation at a rate of 15% of investment in debt securities through mutual funds.
According to the proposal of the Ministry of Finance on 28 August 2018, how this will affect the investors.
Follow up through this article.
First, we should understand the return on investment through bond.
If you are an investor investing in bond either or government bonds or debentures, you will get the return in the form of interest.
And the interest received is subject to 15% withholding tax.
Investors are entitled to choose whether to include interest income in the calculation of income for annual tax purposes.
However, in the past, if investors invest through bond mutual funds, the interest from debt securities invested by the fund will not be subject to withholding tax.
Resulting in inequality in the tax system.
Investors who invest directly in debt securities will be taxed more than investing through bond funds.
To create fairness, the Ministry of Finance has revised the taxation of investment income in bonds through mutual funds to be equivalent or equivalent to direct deposit or investment in bonds.
It is since people are not obliged to perform their legal duties.
The fund is required to pay corporate income tax, only in the category of discounted income and income with the same interest.
The payer is tax deductible at the rate of 15 percent, or in other words.
The issuer of the debt securities that the fund invests in must pay withholding tax on the interest paid out.
Let's compare the investment in debt securities with the investment in bond funds.
(Before the law came into force) to visualize.
Mr. Mungkung have invested in government bonds that have a 3% interest per year of 100,000 baht,
so he will earn interest on this investment 100,000 x 3% = 3,000 per year.
But the Mr. Mungkung will be subject to withholding tax at 15%
The net income is 450 baht (3,000 x 15% = 450),
resulting in a net interest income of 3,000 - 450 = 2,550 baht or 2.55%
On the other hand, If Mr. Mungkung invest through bond funds.
The bond funds have invested in 3% interest-bearing government bonds, but the difference is in the past, the interest earned on this investment by the Fixed Income Fund will not be subject to withholding taxes.
The fund's return on investment is 3%.
This is where the Ministry of Finance sees that there is inequality.
Because of the amendment of the law, the mutual fund must be subject to withholding tax.
And the issuer is obliged to withhold tax from the Fixed Income Fund.
This will result in lower return on investment in bond funds.
However, the Revenue Department will issue secondary legislation to exempt corporate income tax from interest earned on debt securities for LTF or Retirement Mutual Funds (RMF) and provident funds.
To support the retirement savings of the people.
So, if investors are building long-term retirement portfolios, I recommend invest in bonds through provident fund or the RMF funds instead.
But if you want to put the money away or want to   do the short-term investment, you still can also be invested in bond funds.
Even the return on investment in fixed income funds will be reduced.
Draft
Draft issued by SCB offers you convenience and security—easier to carry than cash.
Share
Product Detail
Contact Us
Product Detail
Simply purchase draft from SCB, you can run lots of transactions flexibly and safely without a need to carry bulk cash (no limit in draft purchase)
Convenience and Safety
Convenience and Safety
Don’t need to carry bulk money
Service Fee
10 baht for the first 10,000 baht and 5 baht for the subsequent 10,000 baht with a minimum fee of 30 baht
Republic of the Union of Myanmar
Siam Commercial Bank PCL., Yangon Representative Office
Siam Commercial Bank PCL.
Yangon Representative Office
Overview
Siam Commercial Bank PCL., Yangon Representative Office
One of the world’s current investment hotspots, with direct land link to China, India and Thailand, Myanmar is home to 54 million people and undergoing significant political and economic reforms.
The country represents great potential for development and infrastructure related business opportunities.
GDP growth going forward is expected to average 8% over next few years.
SCB representative office in Yangon along with its local partner banks are ready to serve your financial needs.
Name
Siam Commercial Bank PCL., Yangon Representative Office
Established
23 November 2012
Status
Yangon Representative Office
Service Available:
- Structured offshore lending through SCB Head Office in Thailand or its Singapore branch.
- Local services thru its partner banks - Serve as a source of information, including regulatory requirements for doing business.
- Liaise with government offices and private sector in Myanmar
Siam Commercial Bank PCL., Yangon Representative Office
Contact Information
Share
Chief representative
Miss Vitita Theeraporn
Status
Yangon Representative Office
Address
No.17/A, Kabar Aye Pagoda Road,Golden Valley Ward II, Bahan Township, Yangon, Myanmar
Telephone
(+95)-1-540229
Mobile
(+95)-9-257-099-610
E-mail
Nway_nway.htway@scb.co.th
Corporate Trust
Custodian Services
To keep and care for your assets, receive and send prices, monitor earnings in domestic as well as foreign markets.
Share
Product Detail
Benefits
For more details
Contact Us
Related Products and Services
Product Detail
SCB Custodian Services keeps and cares for your assets, both domestic and international, including receipt and delivery services.
We make payments, check and count with registration.
We monitor earnings and ensure correct asset values.
We report to management companies and/or the fund owner.
Benefits
Ensures safekeeping of assets by a financially strong bank, with efficient management and enhanced system for asset and document security
Provides timely information on important matters and benefits, both domestic and international, for better decision making
Provides tailored services as per service level agreement to support better planning
Reports changes of deposit format as required by customer
Ensures that consultation and problem-solving is provided by an experienced working team with wide expertise
For more details, please call
Tel: 02-544-2923, 02-795-5373, 02-795-1957, 02-795-4153
Fax: 02-544-7475
Email: corporatetrust_sales@scb.co.th
Tips for investing in IPO stocks (Initial Public Offering)
Share
Tips for investing in IPO stocks (Initial Public Offering)
By Nipapun Poonsateansup, CFP® Dependent Financial Planner
IPO (Initial Public Offering) is a stock that is traded for the first time to the public to be listed on the stock exchange.
SET has basic requirements for the qualifications of companies that want to be listed on the stock exchange.
This means that the company that came to offer IPO shares has passed certain screening standards from the Stock Exchange of Thailand.
IPO stock characteristics
As the name suggests, it is a new stock that has just been traded in the market.
Therefore, the difference between this type of stock compared to the general stock is that the stock has not been traded.
So, we do not know the exact market price.
highest, lowest, resistance.
Allowing the stock price to run up or in the opposite way, the stock may have a low price booked for a long time.
Until this stock is known and learned the fundamentals of the company and comparing them with other stocks in the same business group.
After that, the price began to adjust to the basis that should be.
From the characteristics, new stocks that have recently entered the market are popular with speculators.
Especially if the company has a small number of current shares because it is not difficult to make the price go up.
Before reserve shares, investors can request to see the prospectus.
There will be important information for decision making as follows:
1. The nature of the industry in which this company operates.
By having to consider what the industry is likely to be in the future, what is the competition?
is there nature of monopoly?
In addition to analyzing IPOs that investors are interested in, investors should analyze other companies in the same industry that what is the performance?
and what is the stock price for comparison.
2. Competitiveness of the company, by considering how this company has market share, what is the operating policy?
is there a competitor and who are the competitors?
In addition, investors may try to use the service, for decision making.
3. The purpose of raising funds, such as for use in business expansion, repayment of debt and use as working capital of the business.
Which will help assess future opportunities and risks.
4. Analyze the financial statements of the company, financial ratio analysis and anticipating future results.
By analyzing the income statement to see the profitability, analyze cash flow statements to see the ability to generate cash flow and quality of profits and analyze the balance sheet to check the financial status, debt repayment ability and the capital structure of the company.
Although the financial statements before entering the market will be less detailed than the financial statements of the listed shares, investors still need to carefully analyze the financial statements of the IPO shares before investing.
5. Consider shareholders, especially the major shareholder.
Who is he and How reliable is he?
And shareholding ratio as being a major shareholder or holding a small number of shares.
Because if it is the latter hen entering the market may have been sold after the expiration of the prohibition period.
This can affect the price of the stock and the credibility of the company in the future.
6. Investment conditions while IPOs enter the market, it is important to consider.
Because if the market conditions tend to be bad may result when entering the market.
The stock may have a low price and make us lose.
IPO subscription
Because the IPO shares are relatively small compared to all investors, allowing only a small amount of people to receive the reserve shares.
Even though we have analyzed it well that this stock is a good stock, we may not be able to buy it.
In general, investors will be able to purchase IPOs in two ways:
1.  Buying IPO shares before entering the market
Based on past IPO investment statistics, if the stock market has a good trend, the IPO shares that will be traded on the first day will have a chance to stand above the reserve price and often give higher returns than the reserve price.
Therefore, IPO subscription is considered an investment with a high-profit opportunity within a short period of time.
On the other hand, if the economic situation is not good, the IPO shares may have the opportunity to have a lower trading price than the reserve price.
Resulting in the loss as well.
2. Purchase IPO shares in the market when the shares are traded
Investment in this period Investors must carefully study the basic information of the IPO stock.
And should not hurry to invest in IPO stocks during the first 1 month of trading.
Because at the beginning of that trade, there will be high speculation causing the stock price to be very volatile.
Therefore, investors should wait for the IPO to trade for a while.
To stabilize the stock price and reflecting the fundamental factors of the business better Thus reducing the chances of loss and helping to improve long-term returns
Let’s have credit card discipline to live a debt-free life
Share
Let’s have credit card discipline to live a debt-free life
To gain power over the credit cards, you need to “pay the full amount and on time”.
This can be easily managed if you have only one or two credit cards.
However, if you have the 3rd, 4th, or even 5th card, your expense may exceed income.
That is because...
You are confused! You do not remember what you spent on because you enjoy swiping the cards so much that the spending exceeds income.
So, you are unknowingly in debt.
You forget the due date.
Because of the late payment, you have to pay for a higher interest rate and lose financial credibility.
You do not know the total spending from all cards.
So, it is hard to estimate the expense in advance.
You under-utilize the credit cards because you do not know which card offers the best value.
Actually, the above issues are not hard to deal with.
You simply need to write down the due date of each credit card.
Now, many applications are available to help you manage the financial issues and make your life easier.
“Piggipo” application can manage many credit cards within one platform.
It combines “income-expense” spreadsheet with the spending summary of all credit cards.
This helps you keep track of every incoming and outgoing cent so that you can better plan the future expenditure.
Examples of Piggipo benefits
It keeps all income and expense records, including credit card spending.
This lets you know what kind of expense you can cut to gain more savings.
It gives an alert for payment due date, which helps you pay on time.
It summarizes how much you have to pay for each credit card and how much in total.
It also calculates what the interest rate is if you make the minimum or partial payment.
This helps you better plan your future spending.
It searches which credit card offers the greatest value for which store and recommends you to use which card to prolong the payment period.
In case of default, what should you do?
When it comes to credit cards, some of you may not have self-discipline and overly spend.
You spontaneously swipe the card to buy whatever you want without checking if you have the outstanding debt.
When the due date arrives, you do not have money to repay the debt but do not know how to solve the problem.
The first thing you need to do is to calm down and start the debt management plan.
If you are determined to eliminate your debt load, there are many solutions:
Negotiating with the creditor: Tell the creditor (bank) frankly which creditors you are in debt with and how much it is.
Then, let the creditor know that you will not be able to pay off the debt in the future.
Once aware of the problem, the creditor can figure out the solution with you.
Combining the debt into one place: You have many options to find the source of loan that offers low interest rate such as car or home-for-cash loan, co-ops loan, and personal loan to pay off the credit card debt, which charges 18% interest rate a year.
For this method, you need to compare pros and cons of each source and be determined to get out of debt for good.
Do not create new debt while having discipline by repaying debt on time.
This will build the financial credibility in the future.
Selling assets: Try to off load yourself by dumping the unnecessary items and keeping only what you really need.
For example, sell personal items and valuable accessories to pay off the debt faster.
Which method you choose to solve your debt problem depends on individual necessity and limitation.
If planning how to use the credit cards well, you will tremendously benefit from them.
On the contrary, the credit cards can be double-edged sword that destroys the life of those who do not have financial discipline or overly spend.
Now, it is up to you whether you will have credit card discipline and live a happy life or enjoy swiping the credit cards until you are suffered with the overwhelming debt.
Which financial life you prefer is totally up to you.
Do not forget that the credit cards do not cause you debt but your spending habit does.
Tracking the Chinese tourist way; Eat Sleep Shop Travel @Thailand
Share
Tracking the Chinese tourist way; Eat Sleep Shop Travel @Thailand
Storied by: Kanokorn Sae-Bae, Chalita Sununtaporn
Pictured by: Anuchit Nimtalung, Chalermpol Panyanwasakul
Although, Chinese tourist who come to visit our hometown may not be the newcomer but they are not an underestimated group.
From Ministry of Tourism and Sports statistic reveals an interesting number that in 2017, there was almost 10 million Chinese tourists came visiting Thailand which caused a huge cash flow among Thai tourism economy.
Moreover, their travelling pattern has changed from a large tour group to individual travelling by themselves with a big luggage and do not need a tour guide; a fashionista-girl-gang with one compact camera.
But the interesting thing is the number of an elderly group that like to travel by themselves or a large family including grandpa and grandma that come for shopping, eating and taking a picture are surprisingly increasing
That is why we are here, talking with 3 different businesses; accommodation, restaurant, and shopping.
To exchange some experiences, different attitude and new interesting ideas for the future with-Chinese business.
Monomer Hostel: Be a friend and an accommodation
Khun Pueng Tirawongkul, Co-founder of Monomer Hostel, told us that her hostel concept is “Comfy & Cozy style”.
Their customers are very various; alone, a friend gang, or a family group.
The hostel lives through time period of Chinese behavior change.
“We opened long enough to see their change.
Previously, they came alone, or as a teenager-gang, or a friend-gang, or a 6-girl-group gang.
But nowadays, they tend to come as a family, not just a small group but 10 people.
They want to rent a whole room, including grandpa, grandma and grandchild with just one luggage for each person.
Sometimes, the guest number is insufficient to rent a whole room but we are ok with that and gave them as the same-reserved price.
Because we want them to have their own privacy.
Why Chinese like travelling to Thailand.
Khun Phueng’s answer is “They really like Thailand!”
“Thailand is easy to travel.
Thai people are kind.
Things are cheap and there are a lot of foods.
Very convenient and we have everything they want.
They can have mango in every season and they love shabu.
To be frank, when they come travelling, they come for spending money on shopping and eat everything.
Most Chinese come back to Thailand again, no one comes only one time.
Some people came here for the first time but along with a-used-to-come people.
I met one customer came to Thailand 4 times in just one month!”
For travelling style, Khun Pueng explained that it is not different from Thai style.
They love shopping and they have a plan; wake up, finish breakfast and stick with their plan.
And they will be back with load of shopping bags.
The average stay length is a week, minimum stay is 3 days.
Their  destination other than Bangkok are Pattaya, Chiang Mai, floating market around Bangkok.
Khun Pueng added up “Mainly, their most favorite period are their long weekend or both Thai and Chinese festival such as New year, Songkran and Chinese New Year and the low season is raining season.
“Every international tourist” Khun Pueng giggled
Because Chinese customers are increasing and most of hostel rooms are shared rooms.
More people, more problems.
At this point, Khun Pueng said that “This is the main problem that we have to deal with.
The important thing is how to make it all good for everyone with the easiest way.
The best way is to explain everything in their language to make sure that it covers all details, there will be a picture with direction, especially for hygiene and peaceful issue.
“If there is a clear communication, there will be no problem.
Everything will be as we planned it to be.
We did not use Google translate, we asked from the person who know Chinese or the other Chinese customer for translation.
If there is a Chinese explanation, there will be no problem.
If you do not tell them then they do not understand.
They will do as they used to do at home.
But if we tell the rule, they will follow.
That is good.”
Other than a clear communication, this hostel is like “Friend’s home”.
It is more than just an accommodation.
Khun Pueng told us “Many times we face an emergency and our customer is in trouble such as they forgot the luggage at airport or lost passport or mobile phone.
We help them and conduct some local process.
Sometimes it takes half a day.”
This sincerity made Monomer Hostel not just gain trust from customer but more friends.
“It was not easy that they choose us because there are a lot of accommodation choices.
But when they decided to choose us, we will do it the best.
When they choose to spend their valued vacation time with us, we want to give them the best we have.
Therefore, sincerity is important.
When the customer told us that they are recommended by friends, we are so delightful.
Because when we help them, we do as a friend and that help us get more friends.
3 things that Chinese tourist will ask for
Hot water
Slippers
Cloth hanger
+Piranha, the noodle restaurant: Like!
No spice but full-flavored
If you want to eat a delicious Yen-Ta-Four noodle around Siam.
One of the top which is recommended by a local will be “Piranha, the noodle restaurant”.
It is opposite of Chulalongkorn University Book Center since 1999.
10 years have passed, not only teenagers but the new-face customers of Piranha are from China.
Khun Tippawan Likhitamnuayporn, the owner of Piranha told us that since she took over and managed the restaurant 4-5 years ago.
She found that the Chinese customer number are increasing.
Some are their regular customers because whenever they come to Thailand, this restaurant must be on their list.
This restaurant is in the guidebook and many customers wrote a review on their blog that is why many people come to try.
It is because “the word of mouth”.
“At the beginning, I don’t know that our restaurant is in the guidebook.
There are many tourists shows us that we are in Chinese, Taiwan, Korean, Japanese book.
We don’t know who is the one who wrote it but if any customer tells us that they are from the guidebook, I will ask them to take a picture with that book.
Because you came to our restaurant.”
“Most Chinese customers are the 2 new generation tourists.
The first is teenager that come by themselves, mostly 20 – 25 years old with modern clothes and many shopping bags in their hands.
The second is a family type, from a small family, 3 – 4 members until a big family, more than 10 members.
“Grandpa, grandma together with their grandchildren are eating with their big luggage by their side.
This is very cute and feel so warmly.”
When this restaurant becomes more popular among Chinese, here comes the worry that their communication maybe the problem.
So, they put Chinese labels on all ingredients and toppings with clearly explanation picture to ensure that customer can select their preferred option.
The language is not an obstacle, although Khun Tippawan cannot speak Chinese.
“Mostly we used English for communication.
Chinese customer can speak English because most of them come from Beijing or Shanghai.
They are modernist or at least one person in each group can speak English.
But if they are elderly, the best way is pointing system.
The easiest and very understandable method.”
Khun Tippawan explained.
What is the favorite menu for Chinese?
She answered quickly that “The egg noodle with wonton and red pork” and “The Piranha Yen-ta-Four thick soup” is the standard and the easiest eatable menu.
“Chinese people are an easy people.
They eat everything and do not like to order anything weird.
The basic menu is “vermicelli with fish ball”.
But the main menu is as mentioned above “egg noodle with wonton and red pork” and “Piranha Yen-ta-Four thick soup”.
No spice but full-flavored.
The most important thing is every menu that Chinese customer ordered, we need to decrease spicy level to match with their style.
“Above all reason, the secret that made all Thai, Chinese or international customers like this restaurant is because we pay attention to every process, even ingredient selection to ensure our customer’s satisfaction.”
“Load of pork spare ribs are used to make a stock soup.
To get a natural sweet soup, we use guard, carrot, white radish, vegetables, Chinese herb and many other herbs in a proper ratio and using proper heat in our own technique to get a delicate taste with herbal sense and healthy result.
For the fish ball, we prepare and made them by our own hand from a high-quality fish and no borax.”
Such a detailed person!
Top Beverages
Hot Chrysanthemum tea
Iced lemon tea
Iced tea
+Noriko x Nich:: Match with new generation of Chinese women.
“Noriko” is one of Thai clothe brand that used local Thai cloth which has their unique and beautiful pattern for making a new contemporary style.
More than a half decade that Noriko is in the top list of Thai fashion brand.
Since the beginning as a tailor-made until nowadays that tends to be a readymade wear which are hanging around for customer selection at Siam Paragon and the EmQuartier.
With the second generation, Khun Nongnart Jirakiti who design and control every manufacturing process by herself.
Not only Thai women like Noriko’s style but Chinese women also like them too.
Especially “Nich”, Noriko’s child brand which just had a grand opening 2 years ago by Khun Nicha Jirakiti, Khun Nongnart Jirakiti’s daughter, who established this brand.
Khun Disanee Boonsiri, Manager of Noriko brand at Siam Paragon branch, told us that 50% of total sales is from Chinese women.
And how can “Nich” attract new generation of Chinese women?
Khun Disanee explained that maybe because Nich’s style is for 20 – 25 years old women.
It is a combination of smart and sexy style.
But still has a feminist together with some lace and embroidery which attract the woman who has a confident character.
We are very in-detailed for every making-step.
We select and choose every raw material by ourselves even a zip or button.
We have a high-experienced tailor do it every step.
I can say that every clothes we made are a high quality and from an expert.
Some of them are limited and has only one piece in the world.
“Because it is an imported cloth, some pattern consumes a wide range of cloth which there is no cloth left to make other size.
We have to check that what size can we made first.
Some can be reproduced but mostly are limited.
We make just a few.
You do not have to worry that it would be duplicated with another person.”
That is why “Nich” is very popular among the hi-end market.
And the owner does not know about that.
When the Chinese girl walk in and told them that her friend had recommended this shop, the owner would have a big smile.
“Now Chinese customer has changed.
Previously they came as a tour.
But this year it is obviously that they came as individual.
It is a small group so they can come more often.
And most of Chinese women have their own character.
Also, the behavior of this generation is if they want something, they will buy it without any hesitation.
Easily to buy what they like.”
However, the entrepreneur admitted that it is not easy to approach the Chinese customer due to they have their own search engine and the language barrier.
But we already sent some shop staff to learn Chinese.
The easiest way without any investment to facilitate Chinese customer is Alipay service – The popular Chinese no-cash payment service.
“Alipay is the same method as Debit Card.
It deducts money in your account along with Point accumulation.
Same as Thai people that like to exchange point from the credit card.
When we have Alipay sign at the shopfront, they know automatically.
This is very new for us as an entrepreneur.
But it is very convenient for customer and they like it.
It is like our new payment method with more selling opportunity.”
What is Alipay?
Internet banking service application which can connect with the user credit card.
It can be withdrawn, added-up money, service payment, or shopping on website through any supported website around the world.
Also, online payment is the most popular service in China.
Travelling Nong Harn Lhuang, the traditional of Sakon Nakhon
Share
Travelling Nong Harn Lhuang, the traditional of Sakon Nakhon
Travelling Nong Harn Lhuang, the traditional of Sakon Nakhon
“Sakon Nakhon” is another travelling destination of the northeastern, Thailand.
It was once called “Mueng Nong Harn Lhuang” which is an ancient city aged over thousands of years since Khmer era.
This city is full of sacred atmosphere, nature, and civilization.
There are many interesting places around the province as the slogan “The city of Wat Phra That Cherng Chum, the beauty of Nong Han lake will be instilled in your mind, situated here is the Phu Phan Palace, the land is where beeswax castles are made, the town of beautiful codes make the folk people kind.”
Phra That Cherng Chum
Anyone that has a chance to go to Sakon Nakhorn, most of them will go directly to pay respect to Phra That Cherng Chum, the main sacred place of Sakon Nakorn.
Phra That Cherng Chum is located in a temple named Wat Phra That Cherng Chum Worawihan.
It is a lay-brick and cement-coating pagoda type.
The base is a rectangular shape with a sacred umbrella and decorated with nearly 4 kilograms of gold.
The height of this pagoda is 24 meters (78.7 feet).
It was built to enshrine the widely-venerated footprints of Buddhism’s main figures, PhraKakusantha, PhraKonakhom, PhraKatsapa, and PhraKhodom.
Due to this reason, this place is highly revered and sacred for Thai Buddhists.
Next to it is a chapel housing the province’s most sacred Buddha image, Luang Pho Ong Saen, who is the most sacred abbot in the province of Sakon Nakhon.
It is an old chapel which was built as a combination of Thai – Laos art.
The temple holds annual celebrations of Phra That Cherng Chum between the 9th and 15thdays of each January’s waxing moon.
On the day before the end of Buddhist Lent day, Sakon Nakhorn people will hold a big festival which is Wax-Castle Festival, the parade comes with palace that made of bee’s wax to offering this palace to Phra That Cherng Chum.
Location: Charoen Mueang Road, Phra That Cherng Chum, The main district, Sakon Nakhon province
Wat Pa Sutthawat
This temple is Wat Pa (in-forest temple) which is not far from Sakon Nakhon downtown.
In the past this temple was a staying-and-dying temple of Phra Archan Man Phurithatto or Lhuang Pu Man Phurithatto.
There is a museum which built around the dying area of Phra Archan Man Phurithatto.
It was built as a Modernize-Thai architecture but remains his basic daily life.
Inside there is the meditation sitting as actual size model of Phra Archan Man Phurithatto and a display of his bone fragments which have inexplicably transformed into shiny opaque objects, his daily life things and Ajahn Man’s entire biography.
This is for any people who interest in his basic daily life to come and pay respect for their prosperity of life.
In addition, Wat Pa Sutthawat also contains a shrine dedicated to another of Ajahn Mun’s students, the late Lhuang Pu Louis Chantasaro, another master abbot of the Northeastern Thailand and there is another Thai traditional beautiful chapel in the area.
This temple usually holds an important religious ceremony.
Once Lhuang Ta Maha Bua used to stay and meditated at this temple.
Location: Phra That Cherng Chum, The main district, Sakon Nakhon
Phu Phan Ratchanivet Palace
Phu Phan Ratchanivet palace is located in Phu Phan mountains which was built to serves as the royal residence of King Rama IX and Queen during their visits to Northeast Thailand.
He chose this location from the air map by himself and explored surrounding path before making decision.
In the past, this location belonged to Thailand Communist party (as we called “Red zone”).
This is their most important stagey location.
All buildings in the palace are collectively called “Muu Phra Tam-nak” (a cluster of royal residences).
There is an internal and external palace area.
The design is a 2-story building with a modern architectural style instill the sense of classicism which surrounding by nature.
There is a variety of plants, decorated flowers and a local plant species such as Dusita, Maneetewa, and TipKesorn which blooms in the winter season.
This is a favorite place for nature lover.
When this palace is not in use, the Bureau of the Royal Household allows general public to visit around the palace from 9am to 4pm daily.
Location: The main district, Sakon Nakhon province
Wat Tham Phae Daen
Wat Tham Phae Daen is sitting on Phu Phan and Phu Pha Yol mountains.
This is another old temple aged over 100 years.
It was built on the sandstone mountain and a golden pagoda on a large sandstone.
Inside the temple, there are brilliantly carved images of Phraphutthasihasaiyars, and other images.
Also, there is the story life of The Buddha since born, enlightenment, and Nibbana.
Also, there are a model of the Buddha’s footprint and many more images.
In the past, there was a master abbot came to stay and meditate such as Phra Archan Man Phurithatto.
The current abbot has developed this temple to be a retreat and meditation place, and Dhamma travelling destination.
Also, there is an area that is decorated to be a viewpoint and photo corner.
This spot can see a panorama view of Sakon Nakhon and Nong Harn lake.
Location: Madong Fai, The main district, Sakon Nakhon province
Chalerm Prakiat Bua National Park
Chalerm Prakiat Bua National Park is located opposite Nong Harn lake in Kasetsart University Chalerm Prakiat Sakon Nakhon province branch.
This is the largest lotus national park in Thailand, which cover 50 rais and was built in 2010.
There are many lotus species with different color, the rarely found local and international species, and over 300 species of water plants.
It is not too hot in the morning and evening, but the most beautiful time is around 10am onward because all lotus will be blooming all over the place.
It is a great view.
Inside of the national park, there is a zone for each species and we can walk around on the wooden bridge to take a closer look of lotuses.
If you are tired, there is a pavilion at the center of the lake for relaxation.
You can enjoy the view and take a deep breath.
Next is night lotus species which has a soil walkway.
Or if you do not want to walk, there is a bicycle for rent.
This national park is open 8:30am – 6pm daily for free.
Location: The main district, Sakon Nakhon province
Nong Harn Lake
Nong Harn Lake is another attractive place of this province, the largest freshwater lake of the Northeastern and the second largest of Thailand (The largest is Boraphet lake).
Nong Harn Lake is directly connected to many rivers.
So, there is plenty of food and it is a water supply resource.
This is a relaxed place for local Sakon Nakhon and surrounding area people.
There are many local fisherman villages view which you can enjoy.
There are over 30 small islands in the lake and the largest one is Koh Don Sawan which situated an ancient legendary church and due to nobody lives on this island, there is a full of abundant forest in each island together with many bird species.
You can see a golden seaweed and many fishes due to a very clear water.
Nong Han Lake attracts tourists from various parts of the world, due to its natural scenery.
Especially in the evening, you can see the sun slowly leave the sky and touch the water.
This is very romantic view.
For travelling in Nong Harn Lake, travelling by renting boat to each island or a bicycle around the lake are recommended.
Location: The main district and Ponna Kaew district, Sakon Nakhon province.
Ancient community; Tha Rae Village
Tha Rae village is Catholic Community which local people were Christians who migrated from Vietnam.
It is best known for having the largest amount of population who are Christians in Thailand.
There is the Saint Michael Cathedral which representing Noah's Ark in a memorial of Christians who migrated and settled in Tha Rae village.
Near the church is an ancient community of Tha Rae people which the residences along the main road are built in French – Vietnamese style which is very beautiful.
The do not miss out thing is an over-100-years-old ancient house.
The first mansion “Udomdej Watana”, the old house of Ong De or Mr.Kumsing Udomdej, next is another old house of Ong Luaen Treung Sorin which is French – Vietnamese style.
It was built by lime, sand, Yang Bong and sugar cane juice instead of cement.
Next is the old house of Mr.Noo Sriworakul and Mrs.Noona Ubpapong who are the children of PhrayaPrachanta Pratettanee, the Sakon Nakhon leader at that time.
This house was burned and left since but its remaining is still beautiful.
Other attractive shops are Raan Kuaytiew Rue Tuk Boraan behind the church, and a chic coffee shop called “Wara Café” which sell hot and cold beverage and some French bakery.
This is a great spot for taking a classical picture in the evening.
Especially on 25th December every year, this community will hold Christmas star festival which is a very important festival of Tha Rae village.
Location: Tha Rae, The main district, Sakon Nakhon province
Phu Phan National Park
Talking of Sakon Nakhon, most people will think of Phu Phan Mountains Range.
If you come to Sakon Nakhon, you should go to this mountain.
This national park located very closely to the downtown.
This national park covers all Phu Phan mountain ranges together with Pannanikom district, The main district, Kudbak district, and Phu Phan district of Sakon Nakhon, also Somdej district, and Huay Pueng district of Kalasin.
This place has a stunning surrounding view which was created by nature.
It is a place for nature lover.
And, the mountain is a sandstone type which is a source of rivers and more.
There are many interesting places such as Pha Nang Mern, the cliff that you can watch sunset and sunrise, Laan Sao Ae, a natural stone cliff, Phra That Peck, Namtok Kumhorm, Namtok Huay Yai, Namtok Preechasuksan, Namtok Kaeng Kraarm, Kong Ping Ngu, Cave, and flower garden with good air, and view.
Location: Huay Yang, The main district, Sakon Nakhon province
Salt Mine Village (Moo Baan Tam Kluer)
A salt mine village of Sakon Nakhon, another attractive place for anyone who interest in a local and traditional lifestyle.
This is the largest salt-making place of the Northeastern Thailand.
That is why local Sakon Nakhon people never imported any salt but only exporting around the country.
This salt-making process is a traditional which rarely see nowadays.
The process is to suck salt water from underground which is about 150 meters depth then boil that water until it becomes Sin Tao salt (rock salt).
This is an ancient process.
In addition, these local people are making a weaving loom (weaving cloth machine) and weaving silk for part-time job.
Location: Kud Rue Kum, Wanorn Niwas district, Sakon Nakhon province
Baan Kut Na Kham Arts and Crafts Center
The beginning of Baan Kut Na Kham Arts and Crafts Center is becuase this village was always flooded in the raining season and usually droughty in the summer which made local people cannot do any agriculture.
Then local people were asking for a reservoir so, King Rama IX agreed to build Huay Nok Kao reservoir to keep water for daily usage and agriculture.
In the same time, Her Majesty the Queen of King Rama IX heard about the collaboration of people in the village.
She suggested that they should plant more forest to be the source of water which initiated the Pa Rak Nam Baan Kut Na Kham project and initiated the Arts and Crafts Center to offer training in arts and crafts for local peopleThis is a role community model of Sakon Nakhon province
Presently, the center is famed for being a high-quality producer of terracotta products and also includes wood carving, silk weaving, basketry and faux flowers.
These are a handmade product from the delicate process.
Their products became export products around Thailand and international.
Visitors can observe and participate in ceramic-making workshop and shopping your own selection.
The center is open Tuesday-Saturday, from 8.00am - 4.30pm.
For more information, please call 042-709-162.
Location: Charoensilp, Charoensilp district, Sakon Nakhon province
Pha Kram walking street
This street is located in an old city area of Sakon Nakhon, in front of Wat Phra That Cherng Chum Worawiharn.
Pha Kram is the traditional creativity of local people which is to dye the cloth from a natural plant such as Ton Kram.
Wearing a natural dyed cloth will give a better comfortable feeling and cooler than a synthetic cloth.
These knowledges were transferring from an old generation to the next generation with a further development.
It is recommended that anyone who likes dyed cloth must go to this street.
There are many patterns which created from a dying expert of Sakon Nakhon which has a different unique pattern.
Many products are selling such as scarf, blouse, skirt, trousers, bag, shoes, hat, notebook, and many more.
The price range is ten to thousands Baht.
This is local Thai products which should be patronized.
Besides, there is a cloth-dying demonstration and local music entertainment show.
Pha Kram walking street is open on every weekend and started from 3pm till 8pm.
But visitors may find these cloths in any shops in almost every village.
Because almost every village in Sakon Nakhon does the cloth-dying.
Some villages cloth has been exported to Japan because of its natural-made and delicate in every process.
Pha Kram of Sakon Nakhon is very famous around the world.
Location: the main district, Sakon Nakhon province.
Recommended restaurant in Sakon Nakhon
Much More Cafe; The loft style cafe in Box Zone area near Kasetsart University, Sakon Nakhon branch.
They serve many menus whether an omelette rice with great taste topping such as Tom Yum chicken, Tonkotsu pork, Pad Prik Kaeng.
Or if you want a hot soup, there is Tom Zap Leng, and another do-not-miss-out menu which is Dinosaur bone steak, the signature fusion menu with special dipping sauce for foreigners.
For dessert, we recommended “Dark brownie with ice cream”, or if you like something creamy which is “Pang Yen Whip brownie” which serve with soft and smooth brownie.
And also, there is Pang Yerm Lava, Pang Yang Noey Nom.
Afterward, you can pay via SCB application by just scan Mae Manee QR code for the payment.
Operating hours: 11am - 9pm
Teaw Four Indy restaurant; This restaurant is located not far from a new bus station of Sakon Nakhon.
Any noodle-lover must try this popular menu which is Fish-Ball-Yen-Ta-Four-Tom-Yum which is very full-flavored and a100% fishy fish ball from Yaowarat.
Or if you are Tom Yum lover, there is a special Tom Yum menu.
Also, there is Moo-Num-Tok noodle, Moo-Num-Tok Kaolao and an old dried Teaw-Moo-Yum.
But if you cannot eat spicy, there are Kaolao-Four, Kaolao-Numsai, Kaolao-Tom-Yum.
The side dish are a pork Satay and fish ball with dipping sauce.
Operating hours: 9am - 7pm
Baan Noi 2018 restaurant; A traditional local food whether Jim-Joom, grilled, Yum, stir-fried, Laab, Goi, and boiling.
All are full-flavored type.
The recommended menu is Jim-Joom Naam Samoonprai, Moo Kata, Taab Wan, and Sai Yang.
All ingredients are high quality and newly fresh raw; Pon Yang Kham beef, Fore Shank, Silver shank and pork.
All together with the special dipping sauce of tamarind or sesame sauce or Jim-Jaew-Khom sauce, the special recipe.
Afterward, you can pay via SCB application by just scan Mae Manee QR code for the payment.
Operating hours: 5pm - 11pm
Why SCB
Siam Commercial Bank Public Company Limited, the first Thai bank, has stood as a pillar of the nation's economy for more than 110 years.
Based on deep expertise and our extensive banking network, we offer a full range of innovative financial products, services and solutions to meet the needs of all our customers.
For corporations, SCB offers cash management-related services, lending products, international trade financing, treasury products, debt and capital market products, corporate advisory, investment banking and other services.
The Bank and its subsidiaries also provide a complete menu of services for individual customers and small and medium-size enterprises.
We continually upgrade our capabilities, embracing innovations that enhance service quality.
As part of our vision to serve as “The Most Admired Bank,” SCB adheres to good corporate governance, emphasizing ethical business practices and responsibility toward society.
Supported by our experienced staff, we are committed to working together with our customers as a trusted partner.
Using new technology to research and develop better product and service models, we believe we will truly make a difference, creating value for our customers and society.
Pakistan … What is interesting there?
Isn’t it dangerous?
Is it frightening?
Share
Pakistan … What is interesting there?
Isn’t it dangerous?
Is it frightening?
By: Pu Mekpipat
When learning that I was visiting the less visited place, almost everyone fired tons of questions at me.
Most of them disagreed with my idea because they might have heard things from the media, ranging from extremely different culture to the unrest they often witnessed.
Moreover, visiting Pakistan, especially visa application process, can be a bit difficult for Thai people.
First, we must fill the form downloaded from the embassy website.
Then, we submit the passport and a thick pile of documents at the Embassy of Pakistan in Soi Nana.
After presenting all papers required, we must transfer the visa application fee at the bank in that Soi before returning to the embassy to get the receipt and visa appointment paper, which usually takes three business days.
You have to do all of these by yourself and cannot assign anyone to do it on your behalf.
Does it seem a bit too complicated?
Now you had better ask yourself that question.
After two of my friends had expressed their strong will to visit Pakistan, we, with air tickets and visa in hand, flew to Karakoram Mountain in one evening before the first winter breeze of the year caressed the country.
The foreigners cannot visit Pakistan by themselves.
They need the tour agencies there to issue a guarantee letter as a reference document for visa application.
My friend sent email to Altaf Travel Agency, asking them to arrange the program for us.
After learning about our trip period, conditions, and needs, the agency sent us the program and total expense.
We could choose either all-inclusive package consisting of transportation, fuel, tour leader, driver, food, accommodation, and permit or the package that included everything but food.
After the negotiation, we confirmed the deal and prepared the money to pay the agency there.
Once we arrived, we needed to stick with the agency throughout the trip.
If wanting to go anywhere, we needed to ask for permission and present the permit to the officials at check points.
With a car, chauffeur and tour guide, my friends and I could get around town as we planned, which followed the program almost completely.
For those who would like to visit Pakistan, I can summarize the following points based on my experience:
Pakistan is a rather strict Muslim country, especially on the outskirts.
The streets are full of men; all merchants and labors are men.
Women always stay home.
Going out in public are women in veil, which reveals only their big beautiful eyes, or pre-teen girls walking to schools.
Pakistanis, especially men and children, are super friendly.
They usually smile and greet you.
Most of them like being a model.
When seeing a tourist holding a camera, they always ask him or her to take their photos.
Actually, Pakistan is a peaceful and beautiful country.
It is not as frightening as what you have heard from the news.
It is even safer than many neighboring countries.
Young Pakistani men, especially in the North, are very good looking, with a perfect mixture of Middle Easterner, Westerner, and (a bit of) Chinese.
They will remind you of Johnny Anfone or Mario Maurer but with darker look and hair from sideburns to chin and above the upper lip.
Young Pakistani girls in the North are equally good looking.
They will remind you of Pinky Sawika.
You can find them anywhere (If they are fully grown, their beauty will be hidden under the veil.)
The weather up north is very cold.
I went to “Gilgit-Baltistan” in the northernmost part, with the border next to China, India, and Afghanistan.
Moreover, it is surrounded by three Asian ‘giants’ – Himalaya, Hindukush, and Karakoram Mountain.
I visited Pakistan at the end of October, which was fall season.
Along the way, I saw the foliage and clear blue sky.
The weather was cold.
I went to bed in the temperature below ten every night and woke up with the vapor coming out of my mouth.
People liked to have a sunbath all day long without caring about UV ray.
At that time, one THB was converted to three PKR.
This was different from the conversion rate of neighboring country like India, one THB for two INR.
The tourists can exchange the currency at the airport or some banks.
(Please ask the tour leaders for recommendation.)
People there live a simple life.
They buy things at the market or small grocery stores with cash while credit cards and debit cards are used in big cities or large shopping malls only.
Those who feel like a “nobody” in Thailand will suddenly become a celebrity there.
Every day, at least four or five people asked me to take photos with them.
Some took a selfie while others shook hands with me and asked their friends to take a picture.
The funniest thing happened on the last day of my trip.
I asked the chauffer to stop the car to take a photo of the river.
Then, almost twenty locals picnicking there left their meal and flocked toward me to take a photo with me.
One person put a guitar in my hand as a prop while another gave me a pair of sunglasses.
A guy even arranged the queue to take a photo with me.
The best season to visit the North is summer, April to July.
However, the temperature is still cooler than Thailand.
With the strict Muslim lifestyle, an unmarried man and woman cannot be alone together.
All tour leaders are male.
That is why it is hard for female tourists to travel alone.
For any ladies who would like to do so, finding a companion can be a good option.
Moreover, you should leave hot pants or mini-skirts at home.
The only airline flying from Thailand to Pakistan is Thai Airways International, which takes almost five hours.
Arriving there at late night, you can rest either at the airport or Islamabad before travelling to Gilgit.
On the way back, you will arrive in Thailand at 6 a.m. The time there is two hours slower than Thailand.
While staying there, I ate chicken curry with (long-grain) rice and thick vegetable curry with flatbread called Japati or Naan almost every meal.
Trust me …. It tastes a lot better than Indian food.
Karakoram highway is the world’s highest highway (from sea level) connecting Pakistan with China, with the total distance of 1,400 km.
The electricity in Pakistan is unstable.
Many hotels have power shortage (including wi-fi) issue.
They have to schedule the time to turn on or turn off the electricity.
Some do not even have warm water.
Pakistan is quite dusty because it does not have sweepers, unlike Thailand.
So, it is a good idea for those with allergy to carry masks.
Even though it is quite safe, you should be cautious and strictly follow the advice of tour guide.
Personally, I buy travel insurance every time I go abroad and suggest you do the same.
Believe me … Only a few hundred baht you want to save from the insurance is not worth it if any unexpected incident happens.
This will prevent you from the regret … “If I had known about this, I would have bought the travel insurance.”
I do not try to convince you to pack up and apply for Pakistani visa.
Based on my personal experience after spending seven or eight days in this country, I can conclude that Pakistan is a perfect choice for those who love adventure.
However, I can guarantee you it is not that tough.
(I found a group of retired folks from Thailand going there themselves.)
The spectacular nature and friendliness of people is more than enough for me to get back there.
Sound Designer and a well-designed life
Share
Sound Designer and a well-designed life
There are various technical aspects of the production behind the scene of making a movie which surely includes all members of production since the before-production, during production, and after production.
General people who are not related with movie-making may think of actors, movie directors, writers, and cameramen but there is another important section that makes “Movie” enjoyable, spectacular and makes your heart beat at the same wave is Sound Designer.
Today we introduce you a new career that people may not familiar of by interviewing one of the best Thailand sound designer, K.Nopawat Likitwong or K.Pun.
He is the sound designer of many famous Thai films such as 4-Prang, 5-Prang, Pee Mak.. Phra Khanong, First Love (Sing lek lek tee reak wa rak), Hello Stranger (Guan Muen Ho), #BKKY, Die Tomorrow, BNK48: Girls Don’t Cry, The Blue Hour (A-na-ta-karn), and the latest, Malila: The Farewell Flower which is the winning Best Picture award of Thailand National Film Association Awards 2019 (The Royal Suphannahong Award).
Moreover, he had a chance to collaborate with the world-class director, Wong Kar Wai, in the film named Ashes of Time Redux and The Grandmaster with the guaranteed Best Sound award of Thailand National Film Association Awards and the nominee in Best Sound Design from Hong Kong Film Awards for the films Operation Red Sea and Project Gutenberg.
What is a Sound Designer?
K.Pun described to us as assuming that there are 4-5 cows in a movie but one is more special than the others.
In the picture aspect, we describe them from color but how to describe them in sound.
Try to think about horror or sci-fi film which does not exist in the real world.
We do not know the sound of a ghost or an alien.
They are not real, and we need to design their sounds.
Moreover, other existing sounds that we want the audience to see something or communicate with them in other aspects which also need sound design.
K.Pun stepped into this career because of his obsession in films.
From the beginning of studying interior design and concept design which he had to learn art theory and many aspects of design that reflects from the movie.
The more he watches them, the more he loves them.
Eventually, he wanted to understand the film world and decided to go abroad for his further study in film studies.
Meanwhile, he and his family did not have enough money but refer from his intention and support from family, his mother decided to get a loan for her son for studying as the Sound Design at Vancouver Film School, Canada.
Today he has proved himself that it is a worthy investment!
After graduated, k.Pun started working based on his studies.
Sound Design was not popular at that time (almost 20 years ago).
There are only a few companies in Thailand for this type of work.
K.Pun started with Technique Color company which is an American company in Thailand branch.
This was the beginning of his practice in what he learned.
He said he was so lucky that this company is an international company with high standard and high-quality equipment.
After designing for international movies for more than 3 years he started to think of Thai movie.
“I have wanted to work for Thai movie.
I want to show my talent in Thailand.
So, my friends, my family, and other people could see.
” He decided to move to Kantana company where is the place that made him popular from “4-Prang, the movie”.
It is 4 Thai horror stories from 4 directors which was shown in 2008.
This made him had been recognized in Thai film industry.
Then he had a chance to work with international industry and Hong Kong filmmaker, Wong Kar Wai.
After success in the first international movie, K.Pun has also been recognized in international film industry.
Life is not easy.
Before this point, he has been over many humps that were very tough for him.
In Hong Kong, the customer had a very high standard and requirement which he needed to work all day long.
He was working until 5 in the morning and had to wake up to continue working at 9 in the morning for 3 months.
However, it was a very great experience because he learned to plan a good start and have an attitude to think positive, he said.
“We could not create just only simple work.
We must have a high standard but if the customer is higher, we have to do it so”
Asking about his happiness of receiving the awards, he was over the moon to explained.
“It is so delightful when work is done.
It is not just done to me, but it comes out to the theater and I go watching it with other people.
It feels so good to see the audiences enjoy, cry and feel excited with the movie.
And it gets better when I came back home and saw my wife, kids, and mom watch it.
Finally, when the end-credit shows, mom will point out and says that is my son name.
This is funny and feels good at the same time.”
This answer made us think about another side of this man life, as a child of a mother, a husband, and a father of 2 kids.
This happiness and achievement can be shared with his family.
High demand comes with high responsibility.
How could k.Pun manage his life for work and family?
He told us that his timing attitude changed when the baby came out.
He could not live the same life as a hard-working person anymore.
So, anything that is not important will be cut off.
An only the important one is focused.
However, sometimes it is unavoidable to work hard, he will explain to his family to understand first and always update his current work life.
How could he prepare his family stability?
His answer is he had never thought of it before having a baby, no plan at all.
However, after that, he must think of the baby first, their education, and their quality of life.
So, he decided to buy a new house near a good school, has enough space, and great air quality and the environment.
Another thing which he gives a lot of importance is their family health and he also started taking care of his health because he is the main role his family.
To ensure stability and to protect his family, he bought many types of insurance whether health insurance, life insurance, and others.
Because life is uncertain, financial planning is necessary because money is a supporter of many life goals.
And the last question was asked that what is the main success factor for the Sound Designer career?
K.Pun quickly answered that patience is the key.
Not only hard hard-working patience but also be able to be patient to listen.
You have to listen and understand what the truly main wants of the customer are and to understand the problem.
Work could not be good if we do not understand the main problem first.
We have to listen, digest them and communicate them in a good way.
Sometimes, the customer did not understand our work because of its correction and wrong words.
However, it is our job to listen and explain them.
Our work is a service job so, we need to have a good service-mind too.
Passionate, determination and patience are the key but besides that what makes life worth living is the achievement which turns into your family smiles and proud.
Work and family-life balance bring you the happiness and energy which reflect into work.
However, to build balance, you have to manage time and surrounding people feeling whether the family and colleague by communicating with them.
Not only work dedication but also life planning for the future of family stability.
This is what we learn from K.Nopawat Likitwong, Thai Sound Designer with an international talent who brings happiness, proud and security to the family.
As we said life is designable.
Is it a good idea to invest in international markets?
Share
Is it a good idea to invest in international markets?
A column by Buffettcode
Hi-Light:
Most large technology indexes exist outside the Thai stock market and include companies such as Facebook, Google, Amazon, and Alibaba.
Currently, these indexes are growing fast because they are seen as part of a better future for all people on the planet.
Since these companies are based in many different countries outside Thailand, it is more difficult to evaluate them as investments than it is to evaluate companies within our own borders and culture.
Over the past decade, more and more Thai people have begun to invest in businesses in Vietnam, China, Japan, Europe, and America.
One reason for this is that the fees charged to make trades in these markets have lowered substantially.
Also, it is easier these days to find information about the products and services of these companies, which Thai people are now using more than ever before.
In our daily routine, I am sure that we are now using more products from international companies than from Thai companies.
We wake up and reach for our iPhones to connect with Facebook, bathe under a Kohler showerhead, rub our skin with Nivea lotion, put on Nike shoes, drive a Toyota to Starbucks and start work on a Dell computer using Microsoft Windows connected to the Google cloud.
These are only some examples, from home to office, that illustrates our intimate connection to foreign brands, and all this before lunchtime!
It's no surprise then that many Thai investors are willing to take risks in international stock markets in order to be a part of the things that are already intimately familiar to them in their daily life.
In addition to making a deeper connection to familiar products and services, there are other benefits that come from investing in international markets, such as:
Most large technology indexes exist outside the Thai stock market and include companies such as Facebook, Google, Amazon, and Alibaba.
Currently, these indexes are growing fast because they are seen as part of a better future for all people on the planet.
People who are familiar with these products and services are beginning see which companies have already cemented their place in the market.
For example, Facebook has been extremely popular around the world for an entire decade without interruption or serious competition, and no other service has managed to challenge Google Maps for the world's daily transportation needs during that same time.
All investors desire consistent growth in their investments, and many international indexes have proven long-term growth.
Due to these companies' success within their countries, they have naturally expanded onto the world market.
Some well-known examples of this are Apple, Starbucks, Louis Vuitton, Mo๋t Hennessy and Amore Pacific, the owner of the famous Korean brands Etude and Innisfree.
We have watched these companies develop into leading players in the worldwide market place, while many promising Thai brands failed to make it to the international stage.
Another important thing for big investors is liquidity.
There are not many companies in Thailand with multi-million baht market capitalizations, and so choices for big investors are limited to the oil, banking or airport sectors.
The most popular index in Thailand is PTT, which has a market cap of 1.4 billion baht, but with a slow growth rate due to its large size.
In international markets, however, there are many indexes boasting market caps in the billions of baht, with growth rates of 20%.
Within these international indexes, there are many large companies like Apple (AAPL) with a 31 billion baht market cap; Walmart (WMT) at 8 billion; Inditex (ITX), the owner of Zara at 2.7 billion and Uniqlo with a 1.5 billion baht market cap.
Not only do large companies have good liquidity flow, but they are also difficult to manipulate.
Just how difficult?
Try to imagine how much spare change you would need to sway a 31 billion baht behemoth like Apple!
However, there is some risk involved when trading in international markets.
For instance, it may be easy to find some information about the overseas companies you want to invest in, but that information will not be as deep as the information you can find about Thai companies, because the management and CEO of international companies will be very hard to contact directly.
Companies listed on the Thai stock market will be easier to communicate with, of course.
You can call and talk directly to the CEO of a small Thai company, but talking to the CEO of an international company must be done at the annual meeting unless you happen to be a very large investor or analyst from a big investment bank.
Many international stock markets include companies based in more than one country, so to evaluate and understand companies from these various countries will not be easy.
The Thai stock market, however, only includes business based in Thailand.
We, as Thai people, can easily understand our own country's businesses and so we feel more secure when investing in our own stock market.
One reason why few Thai people invest in international markets is that comfort and security are the most important factors to consider when investing money.
In the end, do you really want to send your money to markets in other countries?
This is a question you must answer for yourself.
You are always going to feel a bit insecure about it, but that alone may not be enough reason to give up the desire to be a part of the global brands that play such an intimate role in all our lives.
Investment
Bonds
A bond is a long-term debt instrument issued by a government or state enterprise to borrow funds from the public.
The issuer is the debtor and each investor serves as a creditor.
Share
Investment Details
Contact us
Related Investment Products
Investment Details
A bond is a long-term debt instrument issued by a government or state enterprise.
The issuer will repay the face value of the bond to the investor when it reaches maturity.
During the term of the bond, the issuer will periodically pay interest to the investor.
Predictable return
Predictable return
The investor can forecast the total return of a debenture according to different investment conditions in order to invest appropriately.
Low risk
Low risk
A bond is the least risky type of investment because the issuer is a government or state enterprise.
Grow Your Wealth
Where the World’s Wealthiest Invest On?
Wealthy people comes with affluent and let’s look how World Wealth Report turned out in the year 2016.
More
Warning
Investors should understand the terms, conditions, potential returns and risks before investing.
Stock dividend give you more than you think.
Share
Stock dividend give you more than you think.
Article by: Nipapan Poonsatiansap CFP® Independent Finance Planner
When talking about the stock market Most investors often think of it as a lucrative business in order to get the fastest profit.
That may not be the right strategy for long-term investment.
If you want to create sustainable wealth.
You have to let money works for you.
And one of the strategies to invest money to work for us is to invest in stock dividend
Why invest with stock dividend?
The principle of investing in a stock that investors often forget is investing in stocks is an investment in a business.
No matter what business it is.
It is a business that operates with managers, employees, customers, products and services.
The only hope is that the profits from the business.
(It's not just the 3-4 characters you will print in Settrade, just to check stock prices.)
What we will get as a return on equity is dividends, if we choose to invest in good business.
Highly competitive business will be profitable and continue to grow.
That will be able to increase the wealth to the shareholders quite well.
In addition, investment in stock dividend can beat inflation.
The basic inflation in Thailand's economy is about 3% per year.
If we consider that investment in stocks is an investment in the business.
When we invest in good business.
The business expects growth.
On average, the growth rate of a good company is often more than inflation.
It's been a long time since the founding of the Stock Exchange of Thailand.
Investing in stocks gives you an average return of 5-10% per year, which can be easily beaten by inflation.
How do we invest in stock dividend?
Stock dividend selection Three major factors are considered to select stock dividend
Should have a strong financial position.
Be a leader in the business.
Have a brand or brand that is remembered by customers.
We need to know and understand the business we are investing in.
Regularity in dividends This reflects the Company's policy and rigor in paying dividends.
It may be based on past dividend payout data.
You can find the stock dividend information on the page.
"Information summary" on the website of the Stock Exchange of Thailand (www.set.or.th, www.settrade.com)  Dividend stocks are good but dividend should pay more each year.
For example, from the first year's first dividend of 1 baht, second year should be dividend of 1.10 baht, and third year should be dividend of 1.20 baht.
If the company can pay more dividends that means the financial health and operations of the company are likely to continue to grow.
It will give the capitalist a degree of peace of mind.
Do not forget that investment in dividends is a long-term investment to make money work for us.
In addition, we often find that after the company pays dividends.
The stock price is equal to or greater than the dividend we have.
(Dividend payment to shareholders is payout comes from net profit or retained earnings, resulting in a decrease in cash flow.)
As a result, if we expect only short-term dividends then just want to buy shares to receive dividends and then sell it.
This may cause us losses at stock prices instead.
Investing in dividend stocks also risk that must be aware of.
The dividends that are now seen are based on past performance and the past did not indicate the future.
If investors use only statistical numbers such as dividends in the past then come to invest for the return of dividends.
It is unlikely that they will get the expected return.
Sometimes when the company wants to use capital to expand business, the company may not be able to pay dividends as much as it already has.
So what investors should do is study the business (stock) we want to invest.
Assess future profitability trends which is the best signal to say that the company has a chance to pay dividends continuously?
And keep track and investigate our investments consistently.
If this is done.
Your next stock dividend will have a higher chance of success.
The five mistakes that could doom your financial
Share
The five mistakes that could doom your financial
Article by: Nipapun Poonsateansup CFP®   Independent Finance Planner
In every trip, it is not always smooth or free of obstacles Sometimes it's disappointing or sometimes it's happy.
These all will be the tests that come to us and we have to learn and step through.
Same as in financial planning, we will have challenges and tests, before we can reach the financial success.
This article will cover 5 mistakes that make you fail financially.
When we know what are the mistakes that can happen.
We then can prepare and plan to prevent such mistakes.
1. Jump to be the investor before you have a clear goal and investment plan.
This mistake is one of the top mistake.
And it is a very dangerous for novice investors.
If you do not know where you stand today and where you want to go in the future.
If you have no goals and good investment plans.
Your investment is going to be a vignette.
The goal you want is an indication of who you want to be.
What do you want to do in the future?
While good plans are the tools that will lead you to that goal.
So do not waste your time managing your personal finances.
Analyze yourself and set up investment goals.
Write down your goals clearly.
Then you will be able to choose the smartest investment that can meet your life goals.
2. Not paying attention to inflation or the fear of inflation is too low.
What is inflation?
Inflation is the state of things increasingly expensive.
In other words, the state of the money down.
The meaning of the money down is 100 baht in the next 10 years will not be able to buy things cost100 baht to today.
If you cannot imagine the horrors of inflation.
Let's take a more concrete example of this through one indicator, which we call the noodle index.
Let's imagine that 20 years ago, we bought noodles to eat a bowl of 15 baht or 20 baht, then the price of noodles 10 years ago was around 30 baht.
Today how much do you pay for a bowl of noodles?
How much do you think the next 10 years, 20 years, just how much a bowl of noodle will cost?
Here are just a sample of 1 noodle bowl, not to mention the price of various utensils.
Needed in our daily life.
So the 100 baht money in the future may not buy even a bowl of noodles and the millions of money you have or are going to, it may not be enough for retirement.
So whether it is a retirement fund or a child education fund you have prepared or are about to prepare.
Have you ever thought about the effect of inflation?
Do not overestimate the fear of inflation.
Good luck! Because inflation is really scary.
Many people think that retirement planning is for people that almost retire.
Most people who are still young or some of the early stages of middle age are often neglected.
Procrastination in retirement planning and think that is not necessary and not urgent.
So it is often that people used money for short-term goals such as tourism or owning a private asset with a price such as having a home and having a car.
Most savings are spent on home loans and car loans.
Of course, it comes with interest expenses, then the result is no savings or have not enough money to spend on retirement.
And in the end, it was a difficult life after the retirement, a burden of descendants or a burden of society.
Hope this is not the end of life you want.
If you can choose, after working hard for whole life.
Would you like to have a comfortable retirement life?
No one is planning to fail but it failed because it was not planned separately.
So remember to save money for the future for yourself in the day ahead is really important.
4. Invest without a diversification strategy
Don’t put all your eggs in one basket” "It's one of the primary investment principles you've probably heard.
This principle tell you what to consider in investing.
That is, risk must be diversified.
Egg is our investment and spread the risk by placing eggs in multiple baskets.
It is like an investing, spread over many forms of investment such as debt securities, deposits, because of unexpected events with one basket at least, we still have the remaining basket as the same investment.
Although some investments, such as stocks during periods of market and economic growth, tend to outperform other types of investments.
But we should not take all the money to invest in stocks, because unexpected events with stocks, whether it is from the stock itself or the market and the economy is shifting can happen anytime.
So if the unexpected effects will be relaxed and we will not be too miserable.
5. Give up investment
If you are one of those who have been fail about investing or feel that investing is too difficult and it  make you do not want to invest anymore.
The advice is to ask yourself, turn back and analyze yourself.
Why are you so wrong, for example you were losing from investing in stocks.
The question you should ask yourself is, why you chose investing in this stock?
Did you analyze it well before you invested?
Have you set up an investment plan and have an investment plan?
Did you follow the investment plan?
Or you just jumped into this stock because other people bought it and you did not want to miss this train.
If you open your mind and analyze the mistakes of your investment seriously, then even if you lose money.
But believe that you will have something to handle it with.
Something that will become a skill.
It's an experience that will make you do better in your investment.
Do not be afraid of failure but learn from it.
In addition, the most terrible mistake or failure is that you are too afraid and will not want be an investor.
Investment Solutions
Maximize Returns
Share
Product Detail
Contact Us
Related Products and Services
Product Detail
SCB offers debt instrument investment solutions for companies and investors suitable to their risk tolerance level to optimize liquidity management.
The Bank offers tools for investment portfolio management, including:
Government Bonds
Corporate Bonds
Structured Notes
A government bond, or sovereign bond, is a type of debt instrument issued by the Ministry of Finance.
The Thai government issues bonds to raise funds from the general public and foreign investors.
Government bonds are considered to be the lowest risk among the various types of debt instruments, thanks to the issuer’s credit worthiness and financial stability as a sovereign government.
A corporate bond is a type of debt instrument issued by a corporation.
The buyer of a corporate bond lends the funds to the company for its business operations.
This means that the credit risk and return of the bond depends upon the company's business performance.
A structured note is a type of debt instrument that provides a return on investment determined by a reference factor such as the price of a stock or    group of stocks; a commodity like gold; or a currency exchange rate.
The structured notes offered by SCB's Financial Markets Department are issued by either Siam Commercial Bank or Siam Commercial Bank Securities.
In order to purchase a structured note, an investor must be qualified according to regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
For information, please visit www.sec.or.th
The Dawn of Happiness at Sukhothai
Share
The Dawn of Happiness at Sukhothai
"... Sukhothai is fertile, there are fishes in the water and plenty of rice in the paddy field.
The mayor doesn’t collect tax from people.
The people sell the cattle or some sell horses, here people can trade freely, they can sell anything they like to sell, elephants, horses, gold or silver.
Sukhothai people are happy and live a good life”
In the past, Sukhothai was the capital of Thailand founded by the Thais and was very prosperous and beautiful.
If you talk about Sukhothai, in history, this city was the kingdom of the early Thai people in the 18th-19th centuries, about 700 years ago.
Since the reign of King Khunsri Naonamthom and got obviously greater in the times of King Sri Indrathit.
The era of the Sukhothai Kingdom flourished at the age of King Ramkhamhaeng.
But later Sukhothai was abandoned and people have migrated to Ayutthaya.
Nowadays, it has become an old city and another important historical tourist attraction of Thailand, with many traces of the past.
In addition, Sukhothai has many beautiful natural attractions to find out.
Then discover the unforgettable charm of this old town.
Sukhothai Airport
Visitors to Sukhothai can start at the first checkpoint at Sukhothai airport.
Because the airport here is not like anywhere else.
In addition to the beautiful architecture built in harmony with the old town, it is an open-air Thai-style building based on ancient Sukhothai art.
This building was awarded the outstanding architecture.
From the Association of Siamese Architects and many other awards around the airport area over 2,000 Rai.
There are many interesting things from the worship of the holy things, including the Lord Buddha (Pro Chao Tan Jai), Burmese art, which was built in a single day.
In the Hall will be the PraShet Suwannasatsada.
Sukhothai art Buddha and the one relics of Buddha.
There are also organic farming projects, rice mills, rice barns, vegetable plots, organic fruits, duck farms, all of which are cooked at Krua Suko Restaurant.
And a small zoo, including giraffes, zebras, deer, kangaroos, dwarf animals, many other species.
In the morning, there will be more than 200 white buffalo released to eat grass.
The buffalo here is redeemed from the slaughterhouse and here they don’t have to do anything just eat and make fertilizer.
Anyone who is attracted to the atmosphere here, there is a hotel available as well
Address: Khlong Krachong, Sawankhalok District, Sukhothai
Sukhothai Historical Park / Old Town  (อุทยานประวัติศาสตร์สุโขทัย/เมืองเก่าสุโขทัย)
Sukhothai Historical Park is a fascinating historical and cultural attraction.
The park has a distinctive architecture that represents early art and the origin of the creation of Thailand.
It has been declared a World Cultural Heritage by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
To say that it is worth to find a visit to one or more times, you will fall in love with it there.
Sukhothai Historical Park is located opposite the Ramkhamhaeng National Museum.
Away from the province of Sukhothai to the west about 12 kilometers, which is filled with important historical sites such as the city gate, the city, the ruins of ancient temples, temples, still so many remains that we can explore.
The most important remains are the palace and the 26 temples are Wat Mahathat, the most important temple in Sukhothai.
It is like the Temple of the Emerald Buddha or Wat Phra Kaew today.
Featured is the pagodas which are total of 200.
On the pagoda is the largest bronze Buddha image in Thailand is Phra Sri Sakyamuni.
Created in the KING Khun Sri Indrathit era.
It has been moved to Wat Suthat, Bangkok
Wat Traphang Ngoen One of the finest temples in Sukhothai.
The identity of the temple is a lotus shape pagoda or mostly called Puma Kao Bin style, inside the pagoda is the Manvichi post statue of Buddha.
In the pond are many beautiful lotus.
Wat Si Chum, is a temple of the goddess, Pra Ajana, the true Sukhothai Buddha Image art.
It is very famous that people go to pay homage to the prosperity of life.
And it is also the most beautiful sunset of Sukhothai.
Wat Chana Songkhram is distinguished by the architecture of the pagoda's bell-shaped architecture, as well as the antiquities surrounding the temple show the greatness of the past.
Another point that should not be missed is Pottery Sukhothai (Tao Tu Reiang) it is oven to make Sukhothai crockery that made around the 18th century.
They can be found a lot there.
Before returning to pay homage to the great king of Thailand at the King Ramkhamhaeng, which was built in 1975.
The statue will convey the kindness, compassion, justice and decency of His Majesty.
To visit the park you can walk or bike and it is available daily, from 6 am to 9 pm (Saturday only open until 9 pm).
Address: Mueang Kao, Mueang Sukhothai District, Sukhothai
Si Satchanalai Historical Park  (อุทยานประวัติศาสตร์ศรีสัชนาลัย)
Another important park is the Si Satchanalai Historical Park.
Originally, this area was called Chaleaing City.
Later changed to Si Satchanalai during the reign of the royal throne of Pra Ruang.
The king built a new city as the center of command to replace Chaleaing.
The assessment of the Department of Art Park said that this place has been added and reconstructed from the original sites less than other places.
It still Maintain the landscape of the historic city in full.
It is also regarded as a cultural heritage of the world together with the Sukhothai Historical Park as well.
Under the name Sukhothai Historical City and Acropolis.
Inside the park, there are 283 historical and antiquities discovered.
There are 204 temples, both temples in the city walls and outside the city walls, such as Wat Phra Sri Ratana Mahathat.
It is an important temple from the Sukhothai period to the Thonburi period.
This temple was also used as a place for worshiping the king, which was held for the new king to take the throne.
The large statue that still appears to be the main pagoda.
Inside the pagoda, there is a lotus shape pagoda shaped that contains the important item and people called this thing the Buddha heart.
Next, let’s visit Wat Chang Lom, the main preserve is the main pagoda in Langa style.
At the base of the pagoda there is a stucco elephant standing on the back of the pagoda wall, surrounded by 39 stingrays and elephants at the corners of the pagoda.
Wat Chedi Chet Thaeo is more beautiful than any other temple in Sukhothai.
There are many pagodas in the temple, both authentic Sukhothai and Sukhothai mixed martial arts.
Phraya Damrongrnnaphat presided that this temple is enshrined as the remains of the royal family Sukhothai.
Wat Nang Phaya is composed of a round pagoda.
Wat Chomchuen, the important thing in the temple is the excavation of an ancient human skeleton buried here before the Sukhothai period.
At present, the museum has been built as an open pit excavated to show the skeleton in various ways.
Can be visited daily from 8 am to 5 pm.
In addition to historical stories.
If anyone loves jewelry, then it is the right place.
Because Sukhothai goldsmith Work is uniquely beauty.
It is located in Si Satchanalai.
This is a silver and gold trade for long time ago.
Now it is also many shops that you can choose the one you like.
Address: Si Satchanalai District, Sukhothai
Ban Na Ton Chan  (บ้านนาต้นจั่น)
Ban Na Ton Chan, a small village with a lot of Chan trees.
There are about 270 households.
Most of the villagers are rice farmers, fruit farmers, grow bananas, lanterns, durians.
The extra work is weaving, wickerwork, woodworking, all of which live together as a family and helping each other.
It is a place where we can experience the traditional way of life.
Here they have a homestay with good management system.
The place is clean and nice to stay.
You can rent a bike and ride in the village to watch the sunrise and sunset.
If you want to see the sea of fog, you must go to Hau Ton Hai view point.
Many people will wake up early in the morning to experience the beautiful nature closely and have a chance to join the band to eat folk food with the owner.
Or you can buy fresh food to cook it yourself.
There are also other activities to do like weaving, making fabric, making a doll or pick fruits.
If you come in August to October, you will see the lush greenery on both sides.
In the month of February, it will be able to take photo with field of sunhemp field, yellow flowers full of light.
Address: Ban Tuek, Si Satchanalai District, Sukhothai
Kong Krailat District / Rimyom Market  (อำเภอกงไกรลาศ/ตลาดริมยม)
Kong Krailat District or Bann Kong located along the Yom River.
It is a traditional community in Sukhothai.
Originally a shipping port from Bangkok.
The villagers live in rafts and have a fishing career.
The remaining fish from the sale and consumption will be processed to eat throughout the year.
If you want to visit the traditional Thai way, you can ride a pig carriage, which is an ancient car that the Kong is also used to travel to each other.
Either you want to visit Luang Por to Wat Wihan Roi or try Kanom Ping (Thai sweetmeat made of flour, egg and sugar) form aunty Tim, the famous place dessert place where sell so well that have to close the door because the fear of people to buy a lot and cannot make it enough for demands.
The production process is done by hand at all stages that why cannot make it quick.
In addition, there are OTOP products to buy like a pickled fish, fish sauce, dried fish, celadon, wicker basket.
Or you can visit the living museum in the river, which shows the way of life of the Kong people living on both sides of Yom River.
Then take a boat ride and try local fish dishes from the river.
Finish before the departure of Kong Krailat District by walking in the Rimyom market on the first day of the month.
To experience the atmosphere of the commercial district of the past.
Enjoy delicious local food like, noodle in coconut, Pad Thai Noodle in banana leaf.
And enjoy the ancient dance.
You will found that the Kong people is courteous and welcoming tourists.
Address: Kong Krailat District, Sukhothai
The Holy Heart Land -Talayluang  (ทุ่งทะเลหลวง)
If anyone sits on a plane to Sukhothai through Talayluang.
When looking down to see the earth below in the heart shape.
It’s The Monkey Cheek Project of King Bhumibol Adulyadej of Thailand.
Came from the problem that Yom River in the rainy season is very watery but in the dry season, almost no water.
Then became the water resources development in many areas.
Including the area of ​​ Talayluang.
It is a coincidence that the terrain makes it look like a large heart.
Every family in each village of the 843 villages has brought the soil from their village to the central island and determine to build this land for prosperity.
Then all the soil was laid to accommodate the Rattanasiri Sukhothai Buddha.
And call this area holy heart land.
In the mid beauty of water and trees, this place is a source of relaxation and perfect spot for sunset of many people.
Not too far from Tungluang there is a cultural and intellectual attractions of the ancestors that are interesting.
It’s Bann Tungluang, the ancient community from the Sukhothai period and it is  the famous for the pottery, a unique product of Sukhothai.
When off farming season, more than 200 households continue to produce pottery as a supplementary occupation.
In addition, Ban Thung Luang Pottery Group has a homestay for visitors to stay overnight.
Guests can watch the production of pottery.
If you go in the harvest time, you can learn how to farm with the community.
And eat local food.
Address: Tungluang District, Sukhothai
Wat Walukaram Ancient Wooden House Village , Khiri Mat District  (วัดวาลุการามและชุมชนบ้านไม้โบราณ อำเภอคีรีมาศ)
Khiri Mat District is located at the southern end of Sukhothai Province.
The charm of the Khiri Mat district is the ancient 100 year old wooden house community.
Many wooden houses are lined in front of the Temple of Wat Lalukaram or Wat Tanode, the main temple of Khiri Mat district, built in the Ayutthaya period.
Today, some ancient wooden houses were converted into grocery stores, selling coffee and so on.
You can chill out walking and see things, it’s so fun.
If you are tired, then stop to taste fresh palm sugar juice and sweets made of glutinous rice flour, put black beans, and sprinkle with grated coconut.
The delicious of the district of Khiry Mat.
It must be said that local people still maintain local culture.
Traditional houses are well preserved.
Khiry Mat District is another attraction that should not be missed when visiting Sukhothai
Address: Thetsaban 2, Tambon Tanot, Amphoe Khiri Mat, Chang Wat Sukhothai
Sawanwaranayok National Museum  (พิพิธภัณฑสถานแห่งชาติ สวรรควรนายก สุโขทัย)
The museum is based on the intention of Pra Sawan Woranayok.
Former abbot of Sawan Woranayok Temple and former head monk of Sukhothai.
He interested in studying and preserving cultural heritage.
He gave the art pieces and antiques to be the property of the national.
Interested in studying and preserving cultural heritage.
The art and antiques are the property of the national.
The museum is divided into two sections.
The lower floor exhibits Sukhothai potteries which are all from the collection of Pra Sawan Woranayok.
The upper floor will display Buddhist sculptures of various art.
Most of the antiquities have been collected by Pra Sawan Woranayok as well.
The museum is open Wednesdays to Sundays from 9am to 4pm.
Address: Mueang Sawankhalok, Amphoe Sawankhalok, Chang Wat Sukhothai
Ramkhamhaeng National Park  (อุทยานแห่งชาติรามคำแหง)
Ramkhamhaeng National Park is the first park in Thailand.
It is interesting both in history, archeology and nature that are preserved at the same time.
It is the favorite place for those who love nature and love history.
Especially the Kao Laung Mountain.
The highest mountain of Sukhothai, which is covered by naturally occurring meadows.
Who will go there must hike with a slope of 3.7 km.
But when you get to the top you will forget that it’s so tried.
Because there are many beautiful scenic spots.
The picture is very catchy.
You can see the scenery around the mountain.
There are also beautiful waterfalls, such as rainbow waterfalls, Lam Keaw waterfalls, Hin Rang waterfalls, and caves as well.
Within the park are many species of wildlife such as red cow, bears, boars, and martin.
And also the important plant like teaks and other hard wooden trees.
Historical attractions include: 4 door historic gate, Buddha footprints, Pu Jao pagoda, Ma Ya cave, and Narai cave.
The weather is cold all year round.
The average temperature is 12-14 ° C.
The best time to visit is from September to February.
In the park, if you are accommodation and tents available.
But you have to bring your own food there.
Address: Na Choeng Khiri, Khiri Mat District, Sukhothai
Thung Saliam District  (อำเภอทุ่งเสลี่ยม)
One fun day in Thung Saliam District.
Located just 68 kilometers from Muang District, Sukhothai.
It is a community that extends from Thoen District, Lampang Province.
It is a cute little town that is quiet but nice to visit.
Once in, you will experience the natural atmosphere of genuine, green fields surrounded by mountains throughout the route.
Take a full breath of fresh air, relaxed and comfortable.
There are coffee shops there that you just pay 10 baht for coffee but get a fantastic view.
If you want to eat tasty food, must stop at Somtum Yok Krok restaurant, famous restaurant for both tourists and the people of Thung Saliam.
Continue to the next destination at Wat Thung Saliam to pay homage to the Laung Por Sila, stone buddha, Nak Prok Posture.
This Buddha image is Sukhothai art mixed with the art of Lopburi which is over 800 years old.
Address: Thung Saliam District, Sukhothai
The famous restaurants of Sukhothai
It is well known that when visit Sukhothai has to try the original Sukhothai noodles.
There are many places to choose.
Ta Pui: on Jarod Vithiting, the first Sukhothai noodles restaurant in Sukhothai
Bua Noi: the most popular Sukhothai noodles place for tourists and local people
Mai Klang Krung: Original Sukhothai noodles
Jae Hae Noodle Place
Sukho Kitchen in Sukhothai Airport: Organic food ingredients
Siladol Restaurant: Thai food
Debentures
A debenture, or corporate bond, is a debt financial instrument with a maturity of one year or longer that is issued by a private company to borrow funds from the public.
Share
Investment Details
Contact us
Related Investment Products
Investment Details
A debenture, or corporate bond, is a long-term financial instrument with a term of one year or longer, issued by a private company as debtor.
The company will repay investors the face value of the debenture upon maturity, and will also pay interest on a periodic basis throughout the term.
Valuation
Valuation
The investor can forecast the future return of a debenture according to different investment conditions in order to invest appropriately.
Regular payment of interest
Regular payment of interest
The issuer will pay interest to the investor throughout the life of the debenture.
Interest is paid at either a fixed rate or variable rate (floating rate).
10/07/2018
Business
Turning a prime location into real estate profits
real estate is one of the most reliable types of investment, offering a good return over time whether the economy is weak or strong.
More
Risks to consider
A capital gain or loss may occur if the investor sells a debenture before maturity, based on the difference between the purchase price and selling price.
For a debenture bought in the secondary market, although the investor will receive interest payments from the issuer at the specified rate (i.e., the coupon rate), the total return may not equal the par value of the debenture.
This means that an investor in the secondary market may receive an effective rate of return that is not equal to the stated interest rate (coupon rate).
Yield to maturity (YTM) is the rate of return that the buyer receives through the maturity of the debentures, based on the purchase price.
Warning: Investors should understand the terms, conditions, potential returns and risks before investing.
STORIES & TIPS
To Be or not To Be: ‘Married’ vs ‘Single’
Share
To Be or not To Be: ‘Married’ vs ‘Single’
Female population is statistically much higher than male population in Thailand.
Hence, there are eventually, like it or not, lots more strong single females available!
Many of them have levered up as smart and case-iron women, but ‘single or married’ may just pop up inside whether the former or the latter is ideal?
Particularly in wealth comparison, being single seems to have more advantage of carefree burden.
But wait a moment, look cautiously at the government policies year after year that seem to promote married couples such as the coming tax exemption for their second child!
Let’s see the comparison which ideal status seems to ease the money in your pocket best.
Whether single or married, the most importance is ‘planning’ scheme for retirement.
Definitely the singles are to live alone, so the sooner planning how to do when no income, the better happy life they will be.
For the married ones, their children may be taking care of them but to look after oneself is best.
Little by little of savings, married or single, will truly ensure equal status for both parties.
‘Married Couple’ with Tax Exemption Relief
Thailand has now officially landed on an aging society after all.
The lack of balance with young generation has urged the government to invigorate Thai people of having more children.
A governmental stratagem to encourage more children is ‘Tax Measure’ as of 16th January 2018, the government cabinet had approved a stipulation of tax exemption of 30,000 Baht per fiscal year for the second child of a couple.
Not yet enough, the government further supporting married citizens with the reduction of actual child pre-natal and delivery cost per time in fiscal personal income tax but not exceeding 60,000 Baht.
These 2 tax measures are imposing for income tax filing year 2018 onward.
Besides, the government has increased tax write-offs for legitimate couples of 60,000 Baht per fiscal year which is more than the previous 30,000 Baht per year ( husband or wife who exercises this right, one of them shall be a none-income person).
Hence, whoever wishing to tie their knot and produce their descendants, this is such an extreme prime time for family planning but always keep in mind that each and every term serves well for the ligitimate marriage only.
Besides this favorable tax, an old saying ‘two heads are better than one’ is still practical for married couple because all allied expenses: housing, daily life, will be devided by two.
This is to say the living capital has been deducted by ‘half’ as always!
A Bond of Love.. A Bond of Price !
With all the pros, an undecisive burden a married couple has to bear is the issue of having a ‘baby’.
This is a disadvantage issue for married couple in terms of expense because it takes lots of money to spend on education in raising one child to the full ‘quality’.
Education has been considered as an important component for one’s life, therefore, quality education is the variable of capital invested in each and every child to the possible levels parents could hand out to their beloved children.
‘Being Single’ : Freedom on Finance and Life
Do you know that currently a wedding party minumum cost is starting from 100,000 Baht up to 500,000 Baht?
The well awareness of this accounting to an advantage of being single, as no money supposed to be wasted on such a party.
Further more, no worries for a child raising cost which is getting higher day by day causing by the inflation and the changing of social value.
Another advantange of being single is ‘ freedom’, herein means ‘financial freedom’ accordingly.
Self-decision making and financial control done 100% by oneself are advantages that the married ones might enviously look back at the singles (especially brave husbands who sacrifice all their salaries to the wives).
Expenses consulting of married couple has to be made all the times which may result in opportunity losses.
On the contrary, the singles can make decision abruptly, for example, spending their spare time for a second job to strengthen their financial status or investing in other assets for the growing incomes.
Some may fully spend their money with their parents without worrying of family’s obligations.
Solitary Contentment of No-debt, No burden
Debts are controllable by being single, while a legal couple’s liability must by bore by both husband and wife, in other word husband’s debt is also wife’s and vice versa.
These liabilities are undeniable for a married couple after all in a future unexpected happening.
Flexible decisions in life are of importance and favor for a single one.
For instance, when a challenged opportunity of career changing or moving farer has arrived, a ‘yes’ would be responded instantaneously, on the contrary, with family members, complete settle down, the married one has to think it over and over on these and may fail quite a lot of excellent opportunities offering.
6 Jobs provide services through the online world Part 1
Share
6 Jobs provide services through the online world: Part 1
Life in 280 characters of 'Twitter admin
Quote “Happiness is to talk to the human world.”
Must have skills
1. Diligent.
2. Witty.
3. Be fast knowledgeable.
4. Team working
Twitter is another popular online communication channel for the businesses, news agency, etc.
It became popular after the uncertainty with Facebook.
The product that Twitter has in hand is news and events.
But the challenge is the communication must take place under 280 number of characters with 4 more pictures.
It means that in addition to short, concise and clear message, you must be able to grab audience attentions from just that short message.
Especially, Twitter accounts with many followers, the admin must work harder and faster both filtering, selecting and checking news and information enormously.
Like the admin at MThai that has more than
1.7 followers.
Especially some news or incidents in which the flooded data flow, the admin must always think before reporting.
In a limited time, must check the truth.
Or some information is fishy.
Then must check again and again and check back to the source.
“Sometimes the news or events that feel it tense, can find some jokes and insert in the message same as telling friend a story.
This will make the reader feel like reading more news from us.
But it depends on the character of each organization to identify how much joke we use. "ม่
The low cost of Twitter compared to other media we may say that it’s a charm or the pros of Twitter.
But with the limitation of the character.
It has become a short-lived reporting format that is easy read and understand.
It is also consistent with the news-reading habits of the new generation.
“But the important point the most often mistake that admin make is typo error.
Sometimes we depend on mobile phone for communication and must send out the message quickly through small keyboard in the mobile phone that easily to make a mistake.”
The key to success is mistake can happen sometime but don’t be one man show.
The more people follow the accuracy and teamwork are even more important.
Diligence do not have to mention it because it is the first property that admin must own.
Because discussing and telling this story must be a fast-knowledgeable person.
Also including diligence to seek new knowledge always.
The 280-character space reflects the fullness of the data.
But if asked are they happy?
The answer is absolutely.
The joy of being an admin is something like talking to another human being.
By talking with more people, we have seen more and learn more stories.
Another is to tell others what is wrong or right in many matters or information that the reader should know more.
Help people have a better understanding of the reported news and give them a positive power or positive view of the world.
This make the admin happier. "
Admin of cosmetic page – Beauty that you
Quote “There is no fixed answer for cosmetics.”
Must have skills:
1. Cosmetic Expertise
2. Deep knowledge of marketing
3. service mind
Many people who are looking for a good cosmetic, how they will be looking for?
Good item that a friend recommended?
Try to buy yourself?
Or read reviews in the internet?
Facebook becomes a channel that many cosmetic brands use as a sale channel.
You can dip your favorite lipstick instantly.
No need to look at the cosmetics counter in the mall anymore.
If you think of the admin page, will think of the people sitting in front of the computer and answer questions in in box day by day but it does not apply to cosmetic pages because the admin is also a beauty advisor in the same time.
Khun Kevalin Napromkhan or Khun Pim, beauty page admin said that cosmetics are delicate, so I must spend time carefully.
For example, skin tone, preferred texture, including the customer original skin condition.
This foundation gives the skin a grow looking so it’s good for dry skin.
This compact power has a good oil control effect so it’s good for oily skin.
Something like these I must memorize because it’s a knowledgebase that I have.
It’s important when customers have questions about the beauty.
and no matter what question, we must be able to give advice and solve the doubt.
By wearing a brand character in a harmonious way and reply with polite and show willingness to serve - through letters.
We also need to create a way to sell that can make customer to stay and buy with us by catching with the events to bring benefits.
For example, in the summer, many girls may have problem with the cosmetic that cause oily face.
Thus, if we can recommend the cosmetic that can solve the problem, the brand can be impressed by customer.
Read others chat conversation in Joylada
Quote “Joy writing is like creating a work of art.
The writer must convey character traits, context in the plot and issues that wants to communicate through short conversation.”
Must have skills:
1. Visualize
2. Communicate creatively
3. Can write any where
Imagine yourself reading a novel on a holiday.
The thick fiction book was opened page by page is floating in the head.
But in this bear face society book is slowly replaced with smart phone and tablet.
The writer must adapt to this.
And the one who is the leader is Joylada application.
It invites the reader to secretly read other people chat conversation in the fiction.
What is Joylada?
Joylada is a new Thai Nationality platform.
It’s an application that open space for people to write novels and read novels.
Even it ‘snot the first platform, what makes Joylada stand out better is the format and conditions of writing that different.
Allows writers to be able to write anywhere.
It would be on the BTS, during lunch or in the toilet, you just need a smart phone.
The writing in Joy Lada will be in the form chat conversations between the characters.
The chat between characters will bounce up.
How fun the content is depending on how the writer designs the story.
The Joy Lada’s novelist, username “Winterinparis” or Khun Thapanee Subpayasan, who has total 100 million joy of Joylada novel said that “Writing Joy is like creating an art one.
The writer must convey character traits, convey the context in and the point is to be able to communicate through just a short conversation.”
Although, Joy fiction will take a shorter time than a typical fiction and no need to use variety of language or sentence connections, the hard part of this work is how make people feel more than read or more than sit and watch the characters talk.
But they will feel like they are in the chat.
How to write a fun joy don’t have a fixed principle but it’s depend on the writer style.
But to create a fun story with a good dimension, the writer must do a lot of homework.
Put the plot and tie it smoothly.
In terms of emotional conveyance, writing joy is not different from writing a novel.
The destination is the same but the difference between the way big brother thick novel book and Joy is the book uses the description and conversation alternately, but joy uses pure chat.
Generic fiction creates the reader's emotions, by using long sentences.
But for Joylda, it requires a rhythm to release each sentence accurately and gradually create a mood for the reader to feel "
Can writing Joylada be a career?
text in the novel is read.
But the number of joy is a hundred million, it does not mean that writers will make a lot of money.
For example, in one month, people have read our novels until the joy of two hundred thousand Joy, we will receive 1 baht.
If this month we have 20 million Joy, we will make 100 baht.
" To make people read a lot of like that, it's not easy and not too difficult as well.
For some writers who has a good writing, well-known and have a good number of subscribers.
No matter how many joy opened they will be read.
Then that writer will have a lot of joys.
But most Joylada’s writers do not care only about the income.
Lada as a hobby because writing joy is fun.
This is a stress relief activity for some writers.
Include to spend the free time usefully because they just want to write more than to make it a stable career.
“Joy writing creates social"
If some writers already have followers, when post story then people will make comments and then create a conversation that convert to a small society on internet.
When money from Joy Lada, is only enough to buy a small snack.
So, if you want to make money from the Joylada fiction, you will need to make a book.
The latest updated, the reading through chat in the novel has become more and more popular so multiple applications are finding out writers to work with them and.
push into a career.
So, start motivating, the trial of the system to collect money from readers, advertising or inviting dollars to encourage writers.
"When a deposit reaches 100 baht, will be transferred to a bank account automatically.
The writer can also will use this to save the money as well.
Backpacking Switzerland with mom
Share
Backpacking Switzerland with mom
By: Nipapan Poonsatiansup, CFP® Dependent Financial Planner
When talking about 'Swiss' or Switzerland, it is a dream country of many people as well as the dream country of the author as well.
Besides it’s a dream country, the reason for choosing to visit Switzerland is Swiss is a very small country and impartial.
Probably it has a high security and has a great train system makes it easy to travel.
Also, there are Thai people who live there that I know this gives you peace of mind.
At least if something happens, we know who to contact.
Because it just 2 of us I and my mother who does not know English at all.
When choosing to travel with just I and my mom, a safety is the first concern.
We decided to go to Swiss for 15 days because of 'Swiss Pass'.
Swiss Pass is a train ticket for the Swiss National Rail Network (SBB CFF FFS), Post Bus services that run to various cities with unlimited number of times throughout the country.
It is also available for buses, trams, lakes cruise ships or mass transit systems in major tourist destinations.
We can also use the Swiss Pass to visit museums located in more than 400 cities without paying a cent.
(Ask before the visit).
And if you plan to go up to the mountain, it can be used as a discount on the purchase of train tickets, cable car in various routes.
You will get a discount of 25 - 50% to save a lot of money traveling.
When you want to travel to Switzerland by your own, Swiss Pass is a 'must-have'.
It has 4 days, 8 days, 15 days, 22 days and 1 month.
The author chooses 15 days because it is the number of days that fit with the plan.
Buying from a tour agency in Thailand is probably cheaper.
(Check promotion)
For the air ticket, in the first place, I intended to redeem miles.
Fortunately, Thai Airways has a promotional ticket, so I purchased form Thai Airways because it’s direct flight for the more convenience.
If you want to travel to Switzerland or other European countries, you need a Schengen visa.
The visa must be completed before departure.
If you plan to go to many European countries, apply for the Schengen visa from the country that you will stay for a longest time.
For this trip, the author only goes to Switzerland, then applied for the Schengen visa from the Embassy of Switzerland.
The Embassy of Switzerland in Thailand has granted TLScontact the right to inform and advise the public about the visa process for Switzerland.
Including the receipt of documents to apply for a visa, charging fees and returning passport to the applicant at the end of the consideration period.
We can apply for a visa at both the Embassy of Switzerland and TLScontact.
However, applying for a visa at the embassy may take a longer time.
You can find more information about the visa application at the website and www.ed.admin.ch/bangkok and https://ch.tlscontact.com/en/BKK/index.php?l=en
One of the main proofs for visa requirements is the travel insurance with the coverage limit is not less than 30,000 euros or 1,500,000 baht.
It must also cover expenses for hospital treatment and return due to injury or medical reasons.
The coverage covers the journey from the outbound until the day of return.
Before buying a travel insurance Check the list of insurance companies approved in Thailand.
Typically, a Schengen visa for tourism can stay in Schengen countries for up to 90 days.
You can apply for Single Visa (Single Visa) or Multiple Visa (Multiple Entry however, the combined duration is less than 90 days within 6 months.)
But most embassies will not issue the visa much longer than the travel insurance cover period.
Therefore, you should buy travel insurance a bit longer than a real trip plan, in case of emergency.
Accommodation in Switzerland is not difficult to find because tourism is already focused.
Each of them will have a standard of cleanliness and safety.
However, the price of accommodation seems to be more expensive than other European countries because Switzerland is a high-living -cost country in the world.
So, booking for a long time before traveling is something that should be done.
Because the price is cheaper and can choose the desirable location.
When booking through the website, we need a credit card to confirm the reservation.
They will not charge until we check in.
Unless a reservation is non-cancelable and non-refundable.
So before booking, do not forget to read the terms and conditions.
Swiss travel plans do not require frequent accommodation changes.
Should stay in large cities only 2-3 cities.
The author chose to stay at Bern, Interlaken and Winterthur average about 5 nights per city and costed around 5,000 - 6,000 Baht per person per night.
By staying in the city, we can take a day trip the neighboring towns and get back easily.
To have a fun Swiss trip, watching weather forecasts is a must.
On the same day some areas may have thunderstorms, but the other area is sunny and clear.
Especially, if you want to get up to the mountain, watching weather forecasts is very important.
If the weather is bad with a cloud, you will be able to see a beautiful scene at the top of the popular mountain.
The train or cable to the top of mountain is expensive (even with a discount from Swiss Pass, it is still expensive, such as train ticket to Jungfrau.
After deducting the discount, it still cost around five thousand baht.)
So, planning a trip to Switzerland must be quite flexible.
The plan can be adjusted depending on the weather.
Also remember to check that the city we want to go close on Sunday or not?
Because Sunday is considered a Swiss weekend.
The shops will be closed, some boats will be closed, and buses run fewer trips.
If you do not want to get disappointed, plan carefully for Sunday.
15 days will be either short (There are many that have not been there yet.)
or long.
(Because the last day I missed Thailand and Thai food.)
Summarize the highlights of the attractions that have gone as follows.
Bern (Swiss)
Bern (Swiss) is the capital of Switzerland and a bear is symbol.
Located near the center of the country and its train junction that make the trip to other cities very convenient.
The old town is very beautiful.
When coming to Bern, do not forget to visit the ancient fountain because it is the most beautiful in Switzerland.
Especially the ornament on top of the pole above the colorful fountain.
These fountains have been around since the Middle Ages around the 14th - 15th centuries.
The ponds are connected by natural spring water to the ponds for the villagers to drink.
Even today, people use the plumbing system, the city kept these springs.
The tourists have the virtue to drink cool water from the fountain at any time.
Important attractions of Bern include the ancient gates Kafigturm, Clock Tower Zytglogge, Einstein house and City Hall and Bear Garden.
Lausanne
Lausanne (Lausanne) is a city that is very familiar to the Thai people.
It is the city that His Majesty Ananda Mahidol and His Majesty King Bhumibol Adulyadej lived and studied here with the Princess Srinagarindra and her goddess Galyani Vadhana in the years 1933 - 2451.
Lausanne is located next to Lake Geneva.
There is the Lausanne-Ushsche port for water transport, there are boats that can get to Geneva, Vevey, Montreux and Evian in France.
The author can cruise Lake Geneva to Lausanne, Vevey and Evian.
The atmosphere and scenery are very beautiful.
In addition, the main attraction in Lausanne is the Olympic Museum.
Thai Sala Chalermprakiet is in Park du Dondon and Lausanne old town.
Luzern
Luzern has been a major tourist center of Switzerland for long time.
It's a must-visit city.
Whether it is the cultural and natural beauty of the lake and the mountains surrounding the city.
It is a hub for rail transport.
No matter where you are in Switzerland, you can start from Lucerne.
We can start walking in the old town.
You will see the ancient wooden bridge, Kapellbrucke, where the walkway on the bridge is made of wood.
The roof is covered with red clay tiles.
The balcony is decorated with colorful flowers.
When walking across this bridge should walk across to the shore.
Because the view from the bridge is beautiful.
Tourist attractions in the city of Lucerne are numerous, such as monument lions whine.
Glacier Park and Glacier Museum.
Interlaken
Interlaken is a small town but famous.
It located between Lake Thun and Lake Brienz.
On a clear day, you can see famous Jungfrau as a backdrop.
Tourist use this town as a base to travel to small hillside villages with beautiful nature.
The first thing to do after checking in at hotel in Interlaken is to inquire about the weather because we had a plan to visit several mountains.
As mentioned before the train ticket to the top of the mountain is relatively high price.
We should choose the best day that has a best weather.
The famous mountains are Schilthorn and Jungfrau.
The author had a chance to go to Jungfrau.
The Jungfraujoch station is named as the highest railway station in Europe.
It is in a tunnel at an altitude of 3,453 meters.
Jungfrau summit is covered with snow all year round so it’s not difficult for us to go to experience snow.
At the station, which is like a mountain cave, there is a tourist center, a restaurant and a souvenir shop.
There is also other interesting place, the Ice Palace, as an exhibit site for ice sculptures.
And we can also walk out of the station to the snow and touch the white snow.
So fun to take pictures here.
Saint Moritz
Saint Moritz is known as the oldest ski resort in the world.
It is the most popular and luxurious resort town in the world.
For those who visit this city, are not only skiers or winter sports but also many noble millionaires.
That why many luxury resort hotels and brand name stores have opened branches in this city.
Moreover, Saint Moritz also famous for its mineral water or natural hot springs.
Most tourists like to stay in this city in the winter.
In summer, people also come to visit but not bustling.
So, the hotel accommodation usually lowers the price in summer.
Getting to St. Moritz in June to July, the summer of Switzerland.
(Even in summer the weather is still cool because the city is in the valley.)
We can get nice hotel at the good price.
Really worth it!
If you like nature, travel to Switzerland will not be disappointing.
Because of the nature of the grasslands, mountains, snow, glaciers, lakes and the beautiful old town.
People's way of life is simple and discipline.
The public transport system is well linked and very timely.
Although the author has visited and stayed in Switzerland for 15 days, if I have chance, I will go back to Switzerland again.
Oh!
Forget about the cost of this trip, two of us all inclusive (but not shopping) is about 200,000 baht.
The cost is almost half the tour group price.
So, if we plan a trip well, the dream trip to Switzerland is not too far to reach it.
SCB Home Builder Loan
Whether the house is small or big, SCB can help turn your dream into reality.
Apply Online
Share
Product Detail
Qualification and Document Required
Contact Us
SCB Home Builder ...
Apply Online
Product Detail
Build your dream house with our home construction loan, the SCB Home Builder Loan.
We offer a bonus credit limit of up to 30% to fund interior decoration and furnishings (according to conditions of the SCB Home Builder Plus program).
Take advantage of our special fixed or variable interest rate.
You can opt for low monthly installments under a long loan period of up to 30 years.
Credit line
Credit line
Receive a credit limit up to 130% of the appraisal value of land and buildings to make your dream house comes true.
1. Receive a credit limit up to 100% of the construction wage (in case of fully owned land)
2. Maximum credit line does not exceed 90% of the appraisal value of the land and building.
3. Receive additional credit line up to 30% to fund interior decoration and furnishings according to SCB home builder plus program.
Interest rates
Interest rates
As announced by the bank.
Rates and Fees
Interest Rate for Lending Effective Date: 16.01.2019 Announcement Date: 15.01.2019
Land and House Design Appraisal Fees
Approximately 4,868.50 baht (for land <1 rai).
Expense may vary as announced by the bank.
Loan Consultation Service Fee
Waived.
Stamp Duty
0.05% of loan limit, but not more than 10,000 baht.
Mortgage Fee
1% of credit limit
Fire Insurance Premium
As charged by insurance company.
Qualification and Document Required
Qualification
Thai nationality
Has never had a non-performing loan at any financial institution
Age at least 20 years old, not more than 65.
Document Required
Identity Verification
Copy of identity document: personal I.D. card, passport, government employee I.D. card or state enterprise employee I.D. card
Copy of house registration
Copy of marriage certificate (if applicable)
Copy of certificate of name change (if applicable)
Collateral Document
Copy of ownership document (copy of title deed, front and back) in case of fully owned land
Building construction permit.
(The applicant for construction permit must be the same person who is holding the land title.)
Approved construction blue print and material list (BOQ)
Copy of construction contact
Land sale and purchase agreement.
Income Document
Salaried employee
Salary confirmation and pay slips
Bank statements for past six months
Business owner
Bank statements for past six months (personal account and business account)
Four or five photos of the business premises and map showing location
Copy of trade registration and company registration, including list of shareholders
Tax submission documents for past year, showing income and expenditures as well as receipts for purchase and sale of goods
Self-employed
Bank statements for past six months
Professional license (doctor, engineer, lawyer architect)
Other Investments
SCB helps you invest with confidence and fulfill your long-term financial goals.
Share
SCBAM SCBAM
Glossary Glossary
Select Other Investments Products
Debentures
A debenture, or corporate bond, is a debt financial instrument with a maturity of one year or longer issued by a private company.
Read More
Bonds
A bond is a long-term debt instrument issued by a government to borrow funds from the public.
Read More
Treasury Bills
A government security issued by the Ministry of Finance as a short-term loan from the public and which usually lasts no longer than 1 year.
Read More
Stories & Tips
Grow Your Wealth
When is the Best Time to “Trap” to Buy Stock Dividend?
Grow Your Wealth
How to invest to definitely win the inflation rate
Salary Man
A 15,000 baht salary is enough to start investing
Grow Your Wealth
How did you invest?
Why it is repeatedly wrong
Grow Your Wealth
Don’t Want to Miss Out?
Invest on Mega Trend
Question about investment
Frequently asked questions
Frequently asked questions
How do I do open a fund investment account?
How can I buy or sell a fund?
How can I find out the price of a fund?
How did you invest?
Why it is repeatedly wrong
Share
How did you invest?
Why it is repeatedly wrong
Article by: Nipapan Poonsatiansup, CFP® Dependent Financial Planner
We often think that we make a logical decision.
But, the financial decisions of investors are often biased by emotions and psychology.
Behavioral Finance is an alternative way of describing these studies.
By using psychology of investors to help explain the decision and behavior that mergence in the stock market.
From the past research found that decision-making behaviors of investors are mainly caused by bias.
The interesting biases are as follows.
Loss Aversion, many researchers found that losing power is about twice as gaining.
This inclination leads to avoiding risk.
This tendency will lead to risk aversion in situations where loss-gain is likely to be equal because we prefer to avoid losing more than we gain.
In addition, hate this loss.
We are sorry to lose 100 baht more than glad that we make 100 baht.
This prejudice will affect investors, as investors choose to hold their shares for too long.
(Instead of selling out If it is a stock that has no future), then sell the stock with profit too fast.
Because we do not want to loss.
Because our brain interpreted that loss is fail itself.
Sunk-Cost Fallacy is the cost that we paid in the past.
And whether the present or future events will change.
We cannot call this cost back.
It is a bias often found in everyday life, such as if we buy a concert ticket for 3,000 baht to the concert.
Then we are sick.
We must decide whether to go to this concert or not.
If we go, it will get worse or not.
And when compare the sickness with the fun that we will get from the concert.
But many people choose to go to the concert because of the money that already paid.
Even it can make our illness worse.
If we make a reasonable decision.
The cost of tickets is sinking.
Should not be considered.
But as told We often decide with emotion rather than reason.
Another example is the obvious.
When we bought the stock.
The stock price we bought is considered a sink cost.
The factors that we need to consider whether to hold this stock are fundamentals of Business, growth and the profitability of the business in the future.
If you consider that this stock is no future, we must sell it.
But most investors do not cut the sale because of the cost of the purchase itself.
(Which is already sink) Making the wrong decision and lose the opportunity to invest in better stocks.
But most investors do not cut the sale because of the cost of the purchase itself.
(Which is already sink) Making the wrong decision and lose the opportunity to invest in better stocks.
Choice-Supportive Bias:  it is very common for us to believe ourselves and tend to ignore other ideas.
We will try to find many reasons to support and defend our first decision.
Because by nature, we often do not admit that we make the wrong decision.
Most people cannot make decision to sell the stock that already lost.
Because we I don’t want to admit that we made a mistake.
Trying to find a reason to support.
For example, the stock price is just temporary down and the price will go up again or it will make a profit later, etc.
That may cause more losses than it is.
The important reason we must learn about financial bias.
Because most people think logically but often make decision with emotion.
(Both conscious and unconscious) Accept that we often use emotions to make decisions.
This make us realize that when emotions are involved, it can make our decisions ineffective.
Especially the investment decision.
We need to constantly monitor own investment decisions.
There are likely to be various financial biases or not.
Because of these biases, our investment decisions are not as we expected.
Also, when we know that we all have a bias when to investing, therefore, we will find ways to manage our investment more effectively.
To reduce the bias in the investment by using the system to help in the investment.
For example, making a Dollar Cost Average (DCA) or a regular investment, such as investing in a fund monthly by automatic debit.
This kind of investment will help us discipline our investment.
And can eliminate the investment bias.
Follow Digital Nomad Trend to Enhance Thai Business
Share
Follow Digital Nomad Trend to Enhance Thai Business
Wonder whether you realize that “Thailand” is the most popular place to fly to among the Digital Nomad peoples who work without office by digital facilities?
Surveys conducted among several Nomad groups indicated possibility to open the new business market to welcome Digital Nomad customers in the 21st century.
Why Thailand is the dream destination for Digital Nomad
The new trend among this group of people to work while traveling overseas is now observed as a new working pattern that might replace many salaried jobs.
Bangkok, Chiang Mai and Phuket have been rated as the most popular places by online customers of the Nomad List.
The first factor that attracts Nomadic peoples to pack up with laptop for no longer being highly paid salary workers is the “friendly cost of living” to ensure the worthwhile long period staying.
This, of course, includes lower costs for all living facilities of more or less the same quality comparing to that in Europe.
The next important factor is “internet system” which is the most crucial supporter for the digital working system.
Thailand has enhanced development of internet system with a wider coverage capacity, comparing to our first competitor- “Bali” which is of lower rating than us in this sector.
Another 2 major factors are “entertainment and fun” so that they can relax after their hard working hours.
Thailand is full of fun in all communities with different charms and characteristics in each location.
As for “safety” which is of the lower rating compared to other sectors, but it is of the acceptable criteria for the Digital Nomad.
Digital Nomad – the New Business Market
Accordingly, the “access” towards this group will provide new earning opportunity since the average staying period is double of the general tourism.
In certain cases it may last for years without uncertainty and flexibility generally caused by travelers.
The survey conducted in the United States indicated that 62% of working people are willing to work while travelling with supports by their companies.
This group of peoples want to work closely with the community for being inspired to create their work whereas it is also required to enhance communication.
The survey by Harvard University disclosed as well that Digital Nomad peoples will choose to do their businesses only at the place of “least expenditure” where they can travel from their homes in US and Europe to Southeast Asia as it is their second homes.
More than 75% of the Digital Nomad are the owners of small business and firstly invested in their own countries by some US# 25,000.
But even those of higher income would as well choose to move to the worthwhile country for investment.
The largest Digital Nomad group comprises of 42% of thirty years old people who mainly left their boring jobs in financial business and consultants to seek adventure and fulfill their lives by more interesting matters.
If you are a resort owner and want to access this market, remember that being the hit destination is already advantage in your hand.
What you need to add is the high speed WIFI system of 24 hrs.
security system and the relaxing atmosphere of personal working environment.
But they should not be discriminated by other travelers while they are seriously tuning the system in front of the screen.
Nevertheless, the single room should be available as an alternative to allow personalized boarding.
You should also prepare pricing lists for both weekly or monthly staying.
If your resort is among coffee shops with working space or with coworking space, then you would be of more advantageous.
Be friendly with them and ask for co-promotion to provide the package facility.
Lastly, although they come for working but the Digital Nomad also need friends and socialized opportunity.
Community touring or parties at appropriate timing would be welcomed by them.
Many of them have mentioned added good points that parties are not only for fun, but also chances to get to know people in other fields for setting up collaborated networks to support each other.
Thailand is apparently slow to accept this trend.
Therefore the opportunity is still widely available whereas in the West there is already the Roam network which presents itself as the Coliving and Coworking with branches in London and Tokyo.
Another one is the WeLive with member facilities in New York and Washington D.C.
This group is of the We Work network which provides large co-working spaces in major cities in the United States and various regions.
Moreover, the clear specific target groups will allow for appropriate alternative marketing channels, for instance, advertisement or public relations through social media including the right person with influenc idea among the Digital Nomad.
Healthy food global market export trend
Share
Healthy food global market export trend
Over the past two years, the healthy trend has been very popular and is likely to grow by more than 7% worldwide.
The interesting thing about this trend is ‘Future Food Trends' #FutureFood means food that does not use chemicals in production.
Future Food will change the export industry to increase the value in the 4.0 era, which will result in the changing product model and have promoted the development of the industry into the market more.
One factor that makes Future Food important to the food industry because it is a food that is vital to the body and safe for consumption.
Future Food is divided into 4 groups:
1. Organic Food is Products derived from agricultural products that are safe from chemicals
2. Novel Food is a new type of food that is very innovative.
It is a food that uses a new production process and never produced before or as food from plants or animals.
3. Functional Food is a product that is not a medicine or supplement.
It is a food designed for the treatment of patients with specific diseases or those who are unable to eat normal food.
4. Medical Food is a product that can act as a nutritional value for the body.
Good stock portfolio must select the right group
Share
Good stock portfolio must select the right group
Have investors experienced that luck was not on your side.
When buying stocks, prices do not move up.
Moving slowly or worse, the price declines.
When buying stocks, prices do not move up or moving slowly or the worse, the prices decline.
While other stocks, the prices go up impressively and make a huge profit despite buying the same day and same time.
Do not condemn fate but should review the situation and find out what is the reason.
One important factor that affects the investment is stocks selected in the port are inconsistent with the situation.
When choosing stocks in one business sector, but over time such as 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, etc.
the stock price is not moving anywhere or may be down.
Meanwhile, stocks prices in other business sectors speed ​​up
As such, investors have two options, that is, continue hold the stock.
But the question is, what is the overall return on investment in portfolio?
Or alternatively, sell ​​the stock and then buy stock in other business sector that has a better chance to make profit as a replacement.
Important factors that make a stock that has good fundamentals, but price is not moving up or moving up slowing, is an overview of the economy.
For example,the economic outlook is bad, export problem, the baht is strong.
(or weakening) quickly, and other factors such as political problems, war, trade, oil prices, etc.
For example, if the world economy is sluggish.
As a result, the export sector of the country continued to shrink.
Therefore, the listed companies with export revenues are mainly affected.
As a result, revenue is not growing and is likely to decline.
Contrary to crude oil prices in the world market is likely to increase.
This is good for the energy sector.
In the case above, investors with export stock in portfolio if keep on may have negative effects on the overall portfolio.
It should be sold and then buy energy stock instead.
Such an approach is called portfolio revaluation based on Sector Rotation.
In most cases, this investment strategy is based on a top-down approach.
Start from analysis of the economic picture of the world, country, industry and the company status, respectively.
When analyzing the economy in that period then find out what kind of business would be most beneficial.
Because each type of business will generate sales and earnings differently in each economic cycle.
For instance, the price of agricultural products will be good when the economy grows that allowed people spend a lot of money.
Or travel business will shrink if political problems arise.
Or luxuries such as mobile and technology equipment will not sell well during the recession because people will buy only things that necessary for living.
So, if the environment is changing.
Investors can change the business category to suit the situation.
For efficiency and increased opportunity to generate more returns.
For the economic cycle can be divided into 4 cycles
1.Economic downturn(Trough)  It is a period of negative economic growth and famine.
Products cannot be sold at all.
The company's operating loss, no new jobs opening, unemployed people, low interest rates and low inflation.
If interest on investing in stock, it is a difficult time.
It is full of negative factors.
Therefore, analysts are advised to reduce stock portfolios.
However, stocks that can still be invested in this period include Blue Chip Stock.
It is a big business stock market leader with strong fundamentals, financial stability.
high cash flow and low debt.
And if it can pay dividends is even better.
In addition, the business that related to goods that people must consume, whether the economy is flourishing or down.
It is interesting, such as food businesses, hospitals, businesses related to various utilities.
2.Economic recovery  (Recovery) The economic recovery begins after the depression.
It is noteworthy that the economic numbers have increased.
Products are available for sale.
Price starts to rise.
The company's performance improved.
Start with higher employment.
People have better income.
Consumer confidence shifts.
Banks started lending more.
Investment in this period is considered the most appropriate because during the economic recession stocks prices have fallen.
And when the economic signals start to improve, the stock price will start to rise as well.
So, it is a gradual buy period.
The focus is on stocks with strong fundamentals and benefit from the economy in this period, such as energy, consumer goods.
3.Peak Economy  (Peak) The economy is fully grown.
Interest rates and inflation are high.
Also, high production, hiring mature, high income.
Thus, people are spending more.
The price of goods and services is very high.
The most active stocks in this cycle are commercial banks.
financial Institutions, retail technology and consumer products
4.Recession economy  (Recession) It is a period that occurs after the economy is booming.
In this period, economic growth will be slowing down.
Interest rates are starting to decline.
Company earnings began to shrink.
Production and employment are not good.
Public income and consumer confidence began to decline.
The stocks that have benefited from this cycle are stocks that are not affected by the economic cycle, whether the economy is depressed or booming.
Products are also essential to people such as food, hospital, utilities such as electricity.
Stock selection in line with the economic cycle is another strategy of investment that investors need to understand the economy precisely in what kind of economic conditions.
Because the success of the investment must choose the right stock at the right time and buy at a reasonable price.
What to do the export market in the ASEAN?
Share
What to do the export market in the ASEAN?
Exporting to ASEAN countries is an interesting alternative to expanding the export business.
Why choose to export to ASEAN because it is a country with many factors that are similar.
Whether it is culture, religion, economy and terrain.
It is not difficult to customize products to be exported to consumers in that country.
But before you market in the ASEAN countries, you must study this information first.
Study the value of money, study the weak currency and solidify to find opportunities to make profits in exports.
International and domestic transportation systems, must understand the method and delivery time.
What type of transportation is needed to serve the customer.
Labor costs, choose the production base or wages, that is cheap to reduce production costs.
Values ​​and culture, study the values ​​and culture of that country to produce products that match with customer needs.
Language and price, write in local language so that consumers can more easily understand about our products and study the pricing to suit the cost of living in that country.
Terrain and air study,  the weather in each period of the country that we will export to adjust the product and package to that country.
In this regard, SCB has provided international transactions in Indonesian Rupiah currency.
And international transaction services in Malaysian Ringgit currency.
Which supports foreign trade transactions in both import-export, exchange services and forward contract other than other currencies that has already provided services.
For more information please visit  https://www.scb.co.th/th/corporate-banking/trade-finance/scb-import/scb-outward-remittance.html
Corporate Trust
Mutual Fund Supervisor
Supports all investment policies, domestic and worldwide, to enhance benefits for investment fund holders.
Share
Product Detail
Benefits
For more details
Contact Us
Related Products and Services
Product Detail
Enhances benefits for mutual fund unit holders by ensuring the asset management company's compliance with regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
We provide monitoring of a fund's net value, safekeeping, settlement and clearing, while enhancing precise value for registration and tracking benefits gained.
We also undertake prosecution on behalf of stockholders when a management company abuses its responsibilities.
Benefits
Ensures safekeeping of assets by a financially strong bank having high management efficiency and enhanced security for asset and document systems
Oversees investment policies and invested assets in accordance with the policies stated in prospectus
Ensures that fund’s cost adheres to the prospectus
Can tailor services under service level agreement to support client needs
Reports changes of deposit format as required by customers
Ensures that consultation and problem solving is provided by an experienced working team with broad expertise
For more details, please call
Tel: 02-544-2923, 02-795-5373, 02-795-1957, 02-795-4153
Fax: 02-544-7475
email: corporatetrust_sales@scb.co.th
Our Support
Frequently Asked Questions About Investment
Share
Investment
Contact us
Investment
How do I do open a fund investment account?
Visit any branch of SCB and bring your I.D. card as well as savings account passbook or current account passbook and ask to activate a fund account.
If you have SCB Easy online service, you can activate a fund account via the SCB Easy Fund menu.
How can I find out the price of a fund?
Answer: Please visit www.scbam.com  Or call customer service at the SCBAM Call Center, tel 02-777-7777.
Press # then 0 then 6.
How can I buy or sell a fund?
You can buy or sell investment units on any business day during 8.30-15.30 at any branch of SCB.
Or call SCB Securities, tel. 02-263-3500 or SCB Asset Management, tel. 02-777-7777.
Press # Press 0 and Press 6.
Or use the SCB Easy mobile app or website, www.scbeasy.com.
Go to the menu titled Easy Fund.
You can buy or sell funds online between 12:01 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
Can I trade funds via ATM?
Some funds can be bought or sold via ATM.
Insert your ATM card, debit card or credit card.
Follow the ATM menu and select
-> Other Services -> Funds.
Use your account number and select a fund to buy or sell.
You can buy or sell funds on any business day from 12:01 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Is debt inherited?
Share
Is debt inherited?
By Nipapun Poonsateansup, CFP Dependent Financial Planner
When talking about heritage many people will think of just managing and delivering the all estate according to the will of the deceased.
But many people may forget to think that if the deceased also has liabilities, is this debt also inherited?
This article has answers.
Before going to answer the question of whether the debt is inherited or not, first, let’s learn what is the heritage?
The inheritance is all the property of the deceased that existed before death.
Including the right to be bound in movable and immovable property, rights and duties, such as the obligation to pay debts to creditors and various liability, such as breach of contract and infringement, etc.
All of this we will call together as the estate of the deceased.
Heirs who have the right to inherit are divided into 2 types:
1.The heir by will is the heir who has the right to inherit according to the dead in the will.
2.Statutory Heir is relatives who have the right to inheritance in cases where the deceased did not leave a will.
here are only six classes of the statutory heir, each class is entitled to inherit in the following order:
(1) descendants;
(2) parents;
(3) brothers and sisters of full blood;
(4) brothers and sisters of half-blood;
(5) grandparents;
(6) uncles and aunts.
The surviving spouse is also a statutory heir, subject to the special provisions of Section 1635.
Legacy occurs when a person dies.
And that person's inheritance will be passed on to the heir immediately both assets, rights, duties, and liability occurred with or due to the death of the deity.
Such as the money that the beneficiary receives from the deceased's life insurance contract not considered an estate.
Or benefits arising after the death of the deceased, such as interest (Considered to be the benefit of the heir)
Therefore the debt is inherited because it is the duty to pay the debt to the creditors.
Although the deceased died the obligation to pay back the debt to the creditor will remain.
Then the heir must pay the debt--must pay all, what if the money is not enough to pay?
The answer is in the case that the deity has a debt before death in an amount greater than the estate or only left the debt without any assets to the heir.
The heir does not have to be responsible for paying debts beyond the inheritance that heir receives.
For example, the estate of the deceased, worth 2 million baht, but the deceased has a debt of 3 million baht.
Therefore, the heir must receive compensation in the amount not exceeding 2 million baht only.
While the remaining 1 million baht the heirs do not have to be held responsible for being considered a debt that is unique to that person.
That means If the deceased is in debt with no inheritance, heirs are not responsible for that debt.
But if there is more heritage than debts, the heirs must first pay off all the debts and then share the heritage.
According to the law, to help the heirs to divide the inheritance as quickly as possible; therefore, determined that the creditor must sue the money from the estate within 1 year since the deceased's deity or know that the deceased's died.
Which normally when the debtor dies, creditors should know because the debtor is lacking to send interest.
When the interest is not paid then the creditors must have a follow-up and will make the creditor know that the debtor has died.
But if the creditor does not know and there is evidence to prove then the creditors can sue within 10 years, but if over 10 years, cannot be able to sue.
If the heir has already divided the inheritance, creditors must sue all the heirs who have been divided into an inheritance.
Cannot sue only one of the heirs because each heir is responsible for the debt equal to or not exceeding the inheritance received from the estate.
If the estate has a spouse and has common liabilities which create a burden before death.
The joint debt will be divided in half between the estate and spouse.
The debt of the estate will be passed on to the heir immediately.
(Because it is considered part of the estate)
In summary, if the deity is in debt, debt is considered an inheritance.
The creditor can only limit the heir only the inheritance received.
If there is more debt than that, the heir does not have to pay.
The creditor of the estate must sue the heir to pay the debt within the period of 1 year from the creditors know or should know the death of the estate or within 10 years from the death of the deceased.
And must sue every heir cannot sue just one person.
If involved in the case of inheritance, should consult an expert lawyer.
Therefore, when inherited must understand that the burden of the deceased must also be taken.
The heirs should make sure that what is included in the inheritance.
Recommended that if there is a debt, it is important to tell the family or heirs, then they will pay back the creditors first and will not be a problem when the inheritance is divided.
Corporate Trust
Escrow Agent
Ensures that escrow account is controlled according to conditions stated in contract
Share
Product Detail
Benefits
For more details
Contact Us
Related Products and Services
Product Detail
Takes care of money in the customer account at Siam Commercial Bank under the special conditions set by the client for withdrawal.
SCB serves as a middleman as prescribed by the Enforcement of Escrow Agent Act, B.E. 2551 whereby the Bank of Thailand allows commercial banks to accept deposits as ordered by their clients.
Benefits
An escrow account helps ensure that payment will be made as per a mutual agreement.
For more details, please call
Tel: 02-544-2923, 02-795-5373, 02-795-1957, 02-795-4153
Fax: 02-544-7475
International Network
Keep your overseas business moving ahead
SCB's international network of offices provides the support you need.
We're ready to help with financial services to power your operations around the world.
Share
Overseas Offices
China
Siam Commercial Bank PCL.
Beijing Representative Office
Hongkong
Siam Commercial Bank PCL.
Hong Kong Branch
Singapore
Siam Commercial Bank PCL.
Singapore Branch
Cambodia
Kingdom of Cambodia
SCB’s subsidiary bank Cambodian Commercial Bank (CCB)
Laos
Siam Commercial Bank PCL.
Vientiane Branch
Vietnam
Siam Commercial Bank PCL.
Ho Chi Minh City Branch
Myanmar
Siam Commercial Bank PCL.
Yangon Representative Office
International Banking Function, Head Office
แชร์
Office
International Banking Function
สายการตลาดธุรกิจขนาดใหญ่ 3
Head Office  9 Fl. Zone C
Address
Siam Commercial Bank PCL.
9 Rutchadapisek Rd.,
Jatujak, Bangkok, 10900 Thailand
Office Hour
Monday - Friday
8:30 - 17:30
Telephone
66 2544 5631 , 66 2544 4973
SAVINGS INSURANCE
Best Saving 15/8
The insurance for saving money or life insurance, which is easy to apply for insurance policy approved to 80 years.
No requirements of medical check-u
More
SAVINGS INSURANCE
Best Saving 15/7
Entitle to tax saving with high return of 20% yearly
More
SAVINGS INSURANCE
Best Saving 15/5
Short payment term saving with continuous cash benefit
More
SAVINGS INSURANCE
Pror Huang Yai Hai Krob Krua
Life Protection for Your Family
More
Explore Savings Insurance
Best Saving 15/8
The insurance for saving money or life insurance, which is easy to apply for insurance policy approved to 80 years.
No requirements of medical check-u
More
Best Saving 15/7
Entitle to tax saving with high return of 20% yearly
More
Best Saving 15/5
Short payment term saving with continuous cash benefit
More
Pror Khum 80/10
The insurance for saving money or life insurance is easy to apply for insurance policy approved to 80 years.
More
Pror Huang Yai Hai Krob Krua
Life Protection for Your Family
More
Par Saving 15/5
Short payment term saving with continuous cash benefit
More
Par Saving 18/9
Coverage term depends on their needs
More
Par Saving 25/15
For saving money
More
Annuity 90/1
Increasing retirement income after retirement until 90 years old with single premium payment.
More
Annuity 90/60
No health examination or questionaire with maximum tax deduction of up to 300,000 bah
More
Annuity Plus 90/5
New life retirement with guaranteed annuity
More
Annuity Plus 90/10
New life retirement with guaranteed annuity
More
Pra-Gun-Pror-Oon-Jai I-SAVE
Short term endowment plan with quick return
‘Flour Flour’ Bread shop begins from yeast
Share
‘Flour Flour’ Bread shop begins from yeast
3-stories commercial building in B-Avenue Chiang Mai project which is located on Suthep road, next to Chiang Mai University.
The first floor has been renovated to be a fully-furnished bread shop with wooden table and chairs and a product showcase.
Moreover, there is a small bar which has been decorated as a white window room to peek for some sunlight.
Inside the shop, not only minimal-friendly style and staff smile but also bread smell from the back kitchen are welcoming every guest.
‘Flour Flour’, a repeated and easy-to-remember word, was invented and became this bread shop name by K.Namfon Udomlertlak, 31 years old, a former art student who turned into the owner of the bread shop.
K.Namfon was born in Thai-Chinese family.
She loves baking and cooking since she was young.
Although, she started learning in the Faculty of Painting, Sculpture and Graphic Arts, Silpakorn University she has never changed her passion from cooking.
After graduation, she did follow her study path for a while until she had a chance to go study abroad in master’s degree of Film studies at Amsterdam University of Arts, Netherland where she found that most people there love to eat bread and have a great taste for bread selection.
She had not noticed that this would be a big change to her attitude with bread.
“There was a friend that loved to bake bread for me.
It was super delicious, and it could not be found at any supermarket.”
She said that this made her obsess with bread and tried hard to find what are the factors of this deliciousness and found that it was from the quality of flour which include yeast fermentation.
So, how to make good and delicious flour...?
Research & Study of how to make bread
From interest becomes more study and research, she started reading about making bread and try to do it.
She spent a lot of time for bread production especially yeast fermentation.
Although the world has been changed and many instant materials have taken place from most of the manual work.
herefore, instant yeast has been introduced to bread production because of its ease and convenience to use.
However, this could not change K.Namfon mind, she chooses to ferment yeast in a natural way because of only one reason, it is fun
“To ferment yeast since the beginning is like we are taking care of animals.
We have to monitor their growth every fermented bottle.
When can we make bread?
Is it possible to do so if it is overdue?
Can we control them?”
When experiment became enjoyment, K.Namfon told us that we can control yeast fermentation in every step and there are many things that need to be concerned whether outside temperature, food, and many more which cannot be found in normal yeast and yeast powder.
However, there are always some mistakes in every experiment... Besides, they are from Art program who started cooking and baking.
These took a lot of time before finding the right way.
In the beginning, K.Namfon and her boyfriend started from baking and selling a simple homemade menu which was Toast with peanut butter because of its simple and easy to sell.
They did not own a shop and no staff, it was just a small rental selling booth and opened only from 8 - 11 am.
Eventually, after saving some money, they have moved to the first “Flour Flour” shop on Nimmanahaeminda Road.
But to open one shop is not that easy.
K.Namfon has no experience of business at all, no staff to help them, and did not know how to manage things whether how to hire staff, store concept, brand marketing, and others.
But she has to bake bread for sale and this is only what she knew.
However, only one thing that inspires her is “joyfulness”.
Shop could not survive with only joyful
“This shop started from our experiments.”
K.Namfon just wanted to own a stable shop and develop some bread recipes.
So, she and her boyfriend decided to open a shop.
After they have tried and developed their recipe until it became unique.
They started thinking about shop plan and layout.
She wanted “Flour Flour” to be a breakfast serving service with all-day serving sweets such as donut.
However, the main highlight is that every menu is made from her own yeast.
Half a year has passed, they might find some obstacles during many experiments but these help her became the more in-detailed person at each bread since dish selection, food presentation, shop decoration and picture selection for marketing communication.
This made “Flour Flour” more famous, have good online feedback, well-known and more followers.
However, K.Namfon still has something on her mind since the beginning which is bread is not the main culture food for Thai people but she hopes for one day after the world has changed, Thai tasting and bread attitude may change.
“In the next 10 - 20 years, Thai people may change to eat more bread.
Also, a combination of local product with a little-sour-and-sticky-soft Sourdough bread may make them more interesting in bread as same as our signature menu “YU CHAN”
YU CHAN, the signature breakfast with de
This menu highlight is its ingredient which is the sweet “Yu Chan” cherry tomato from organic Japanese farm in Chiang Mai.
“Yu Chan” is a small size tomato but great taste.
Its taste will make you feel ‘delicious and fresh’.
These sweet and succulent tomatoes are served on crispy bread with sticky-soft texture and a little sour taste.
This is a great combination which you could not find anywhere else.
For the next step, K.Namfon wants this result to become the best and she just wants this “Flour Flour” brand stay on everybody minds.
Because of her true love in bread, this makes her the most happiness out of it.
She has her eagerness to learn for the next step and that is because of bread taught her that “There is no shortcut toward success”.
Flour Flour 200/13 B – Avenue, inside D-Conda, Suthep Road
Tel. 09 2916 4166
Open 8.30am - 4.30pm
www.facebook.com/flourflourbread
Storied: Rochaneekorn Srifahwattana
Picture: Kowit Pothisarn
Get to know Foreign Investment Fund
Share
Get to know Foreign Investment Fund
By: Nipapan Poonsatiansup, CFP Dependent Financial Planner
For this article, We will take you to know foreign investment through foreign mutual funds.
Foreign Investment Fund or FIF is a mutual fund focused on investing in foreign securities, not less than 80% of the net asset value.
SEC requires the fund to invest in countries with regulatory bodies that are ordinary members of IOSCO or in countries where the stock exchange is a member of the World Stock Exchange Organization (WFE).
To be able to trust that the stock exchange and the securities that investors invest in will receive good governance at the international standard level.
At present, FIF mutual funds in Thailand are divided into 2 main types:
1.In which the Thai Asset Management Fund manages itself
In which the Thai Asset Management Fund manages itself by investing money in various securities or financial products abroad.
Whether stocks, debt securities, futures contracts with returns based on various variables such as reference to securities prices or stock price index,
product prices or commodity price indices such as gold prices or crude oil prices, etc.
But still does not cover direct investment in many other types of products such as gold and oil commodities.
Examples of this type of foreign mutual funds that are offered for sale and are popular, such as FIF mutual funds that invest in South Korean bonds
2.The type that Thai asset management company buy the mutual fund managed by another foreign fund manager.
Or it is an indirect investment through foreign funds in that country which can be invested in 2 ways:
2.1  Fund of Funds is to buy various mutual funds in the foreign countries which may have similar investment policies or different policies.
By which Thai Asset Management Corporation will determine which funds to invest in, in what proportion and will be able to adjust the investment as appropriate under the criteria specified by the SEC.
2.2 Feeder Fund is the investment in only one foreign fund, called the Master Fund.
Such as FIF X mutual funds to invest in a single Y fund established in a foreign country.
In which the Fund Y will have a fund manager who is overseeing and managing money.
Which may invest in other mutual funds or financial products according to the specified investment policy.
Examples of Thai Feeder Funds such as FIF mutual funds that invest in mutual funds in foreign countries that have policies to invest in gold bullion etc.
Since the FIF mutual fund will have to raise money to invest in foreign countries, the fund manager will have more work searching and analyzing data to decide which securities or instruments are available in the markets of various countries which is a difficult task and challenging the fund manager's ability.
If the fund management company does not have a network or partner in foreign countries to send analytical information, instead of FIF funds, will choose securities for their own investment, some funds may choose to invest in foreign funds with expertise and invest in instruments that match the fund's policy.
Which will save a lot of time for fund managers and to make use of what is already available?
In terms of management fees, if investing through overseas funds, there will be a 2-tier fee.
Is the management fee of Thai Asset Management Company that issued the fund and management fees of foreign funds invested by the Asset Management Company?
Thus, the management fees of foreign mutual funds will be higher.
Therefore, investors must study and compare various expenses before investin
How are FIF mutual funds interesting?
It is a way for small investors to have an opportunity to invest in foreign countries without having to spend a lot of money.
Have a professional to help manage investment and making it possible to diversify investment into a wide range of financial products, more than those offered in the country and help diversify investment risks due to the high volatility in the domestic financial market
There are many options for investors.
Since the current investment policy of FIF mutual funds is very diverse.
There are both foreign debt funds, foreign stock funds, mutual funds, commodities such as gold mutual funds.
The investment in the Gold Mutual Fund is also one of the types of investment in FIF mutual funds.
Some funds have chosen to focus on investing in certain regions of the world, focusing on emerging markets with an emerging growth trend.
For example, BRIC countries (Brazil, Russia, India, China) or some choose to invest in utilities, renewable energy, pharmaceutical, and pharmaceutical industries.
Or may choose to invest in the new innovations industry which is not yet in Thailand, etc.
How to evaluate the performance?
In general, the fund's results will be used to compare with the specified benchmark.
The Asset Management Company will select the benchmark that is consistent with the investment policy of the fund.
Which will be disclosed to investors in advance.
Such as FIF mutual funds that invest in crude oil futures contracts will evaluate the performance of the fund against the global crude oil price index, such as the Deutsche Bank Liquid Commodity Index.
Asset Management Company will tell the name of the index and resources to view these indicators in the prospectus.
Who is suitable for?
Investors who want to diversify their investments in other countries which can get the return that difference from domestic investment.
At the same time, they must have knowledge and understanding of the risks of FIF mutual funds that will be more and different from domestic investment funds.
Return and risk from investment in FIF mutual funds
The return that we will receive from investing in FIF mutual funds is the same as the return on investment in mutual funds in general.
Which will be acquired in 2 forms, capital gain or excess profit from the investment unit value and dividend (Which investors will receive or not receiving dividends depends on the dividend payment policy of the fund)
For the risk of FIF funds, investors must study and understand because there are risks involved in addition to the risks of mutual funds in general.
The risks of FIF mutual funds are as follows:
Risk of securities invested, such as in the case of stock funds, there are major risks due to the volatility of stock market prices.
If it is a fixed income fund, there are major risks that subject to the ability to repay the debt of issuers or liquidity issues, etc.
In the case of debt instruments, Investors should see whether to invest in government or private debt instruments.
What is the credit rating of instruments and securities?
Where the credit rating is divided into two groups, namely Investment Grade or Investment Group (AAA to BBB-) and Speculative Grade or Speculative Group (BB + - Down to D)
Risks of economic and political conditions of the country in which the Fund invests (Country Risk) which can be caused by changes in political policies or fluctuations in the economic conditions of that country.
Risks in limiting the investment return (Repatriation Risk) is a risk that countries that may invest in capital control measures may not be able to invest and return to Thailand as expected.
Foreign Exchange Rate Risk caused by foreign mutual funds must exchange the baht into foreign currency first to invest money.
When receiving returns and principal in the form of foreign currency, they must exchange back into baht to pay back to the investors who want to redeem the investment units.
Or pay back to the investor when the foreign mutual fund matures
In general, this risk can be reduced by hedging, such as making a futures contract to lock the baht at the rate that the fund manager thinks will be a benefit to the fund in the future.
But hedging will increase the cost Which may cause the return of the investors to be reduced
The SEC has determined that the Asset Management Company must clearly inform investors of the risks of currency exchange rates in the currency of the underlying investment and the policies used to manage that risk in the prospectus for offering that investment unit.
And must also be disclosed in all types of documents used for the offering of mutual funds, such as documents, advertisements, public relations and documents that are distributed at the seminar of the mutual fund as well.
And must specify which types of risks are protected in these 4 types, including
1.  Protect the whole amount of risk.
(Allowing to prevent the risk of not less than 90% of the investment amount for mutual funds that have a moving investment portfolio)
2. Prevent some risks Which must clearly specify the proportion
3. Prevent risks at the discretion of the fund manager.
4. Did not prevent the risk at all.
If not protecting the whole amount or almost the whole amount (Use methods according to 1 - 3) Must also write a warning to investors that they may receive less profit or not receive a full principle as they have been invested on the first page of the prospectus.
So that investors can see clearly.
In addition to having a clear disclosure of information, the SEC also provides guidelines for asset management companies to be able to provide evidence to confirm that Investors in these mutual funds understand and aware of various risks and warnings.
Therefore, investors should read and understand various risk information.
associated Including exchange rate risk and risk management Before ordering investment units of FIF mutual funds
This thesis is a study on the socio-economic change inPhetchaburi (1857-1917), from the Ayutthaya to the earlyRatanakosin period.
It was found that the central governmentof the Thai Kingdom recognized the importance of Phetchaburiin several aspects.
This became the basis for socio-economicchange in the city of Phetchaburi in the period under study.
The important factors behind these changes can bedivided into outside factors and inner factors.
The outsidefactors consisted of the interest shown by Royalty and highnobility such as King Mongkut, King Chulalongkorn and the"Bunnag" family together with the American missionaries.
Theinner factors included the growth of Phetchaburi as a resultof the improvement in communications and the growth of theeconomy together with the increase of the labour forcewithin the area.
These factors led to significant change inthe physical, the position of resort, social structure andintellectual life of Muang Phetchaburi.
The establishment of King Vajirawut's new palace at"Bangta-lu" beach in petchaburi in 1917 and the southernrailway from Bangkok to Hua-Hin brought people to theseaside more and more.
As a result, Phetchaburi's importancedeclined.
The purposes of this study were ot study English strategiccompetence of mathayom suksa six students in schools under thejurisdiction of the Department of General Education and to studythe use of english communication strategies in the aspects ofparalinguistic strategies, interlingual strategies andintralingual strategies of those students.
The subjects were 320mathayom suksa six students in the 1992 academic year selected bymulti stage cluster random sampling technique.
The instrumentused in this study was the test of using the communicationstrategies constructed by the researcher.
The major findings of the study were as follows:
1. Mathayom suka six students had English strategiccompetence with the mean score at the percentage of 50.75 whichwas at the minimum level.
According to the program of study,students in Science Program got the mean score at the percentageof 54.69 which was at the minumum level, higher than students inLanguage-Art Program who got the mean score at the percentage of46.81, which was lower than the minimum level.
2. Mathayom suksa six students had the frequency in usingthe English communication strategies in the aspects ofintralingual strategies the most at the percentag of 64.04,paralinguistic strategies secondly at the percentage of 20.93 andinterlingual strategies the least at the percentage of 15.03.
The purpose of this research is to develop the informationsystem for the Royal Thai Navy's naval operations.
The system isdivided into four subsystems based on four different levels ofusers.
They are inquiry, operational, management, andstrategic levels.
The system provides information about thereadiness and performance of ships, weapons, communications andelectronic warfare equipment.
Relational design technique was used to design thedatabase.
First, the existing data was analyzed to create alogical data model which was then normalized and translated intothe relational database.
Second, input, output, and processingdesigns were made.
Finally, interactive processing wasdeveloped using FoxPro relational database management system onmicrocomputer. The resulting information from the system will benefit thehigh ranking commanders of the Royal Thai Navy in managing andmaking decisions such as maritime search and rescue operationsand resource planning.
The purpose of this thesis is for collecting theinformation, designing the appropriate distributed database andprocessing system, which will increase performance of theinventory control system of the automobile assembly parts enableto process data accurately and efficiently.
In case that thecomputer system of any nodes fails, this system on the other nodestill keeps running data without any problems.
The design of this system is use the relational databasemodelling techniques to analyse the existing centralized data.
From this analysis, a logical data model is created.
Data modelis EAR model that consisted of three important parts, as follows:Entity, Relationship and Attribute.
Next step, the centralizedlogical data model is converted into the distributed logical datamodel which is modified to a distributed relational database byconsidering of fragmentation and allocation of data which is bestsuitabel for storing data of each node to easily accommodate anduse network communications with efficiency.
Beside the inventory process design, this system alsoincludes input design, output design and a transfer data to theother node to handle problem such as one of the node in thecomputer system is down.
Futhermore, the inventory controlsystem of this design is useful and helpful not only theautomobile assembly parts, but also the other businessenvironment.
This research considers all the existing laws relating totelecommunications in Thailand.
A main purpose of this researchis to evalulate whether they can cope with value added servicesin Thailand and whether or not and how such laws should beimproved or amended so that they could keep up with social,economic and technological advancement.
The research finds that the provisions of suchtelecommunication laws presently governing and dealing with valueadded services in Thailand are unclear and ambiguous.
As a resultthere have so far been many problems derived from the enforcementand interpretation of the laws, which have more or less affectedoperations of various agencies or organizations providing suchvalue added servies.
Moreover, as the laws do not correspond withnational policy on provisions of public utility and as no efforthave been made to improve or amend the laws to keep up withdevelopment of telecommunication technology, there arelimitations which hinder promotion and development of the valueadded services especially the laws emphasizing control by astate.
To improve and amend such laws so that they accord with thesocial economic and technological development of Thailand, it isproposed that certain measures should be undertaken to promoteand encourage private sectors participation.
Existing laws andlegislations should be carefully reviewed and amended so thatthey could properly cope with advancement in telecommunicationtechnology.
This research is aim to studying and comparing the effectof relocation of private and government sectors which the hiringis over 2,000 people each.
The research is to study the housingneeds and the living behavior in order to determine the future ofhousing needs.
There are two organizations shoosen for the study,ie. Siam Commercial Bank Co.,Ltd. and The CommunicationsAuthority of Thailand.
The outcome of the research study reveals that bothorganizations transfer their headquarters into the suburb area,for CAT from Bangrak to Chaeng Wattana Rd. since 2529 BE., forSCB form Phetchaburi Rd. to Ratchadaphisek Rd. in 2539 BE.
Therelocation causes the increasing of CAT employees using their ownvehicles and the CAT's employees bus.
The same happens to SCB'semployees while the city bus choice is less chosen.
Bothorganizations agree about the space of new offices satisfactory,meanwhile, the time with their family is shorter.
They have noother choice but moving to the new office.
Most of them have nopreparation for new place to stay.
26.1 % of SCB employees and31.9 % of CAT employees think of moving into a new place when therelocation happen.
The main reasons are to be close to their newoffice and for convenience trip to work.
The single think aboutmoving their living place more than those who are married.
Alsothe lower position tend to relocate into the new place more thanthose who are in higher position.
The longer the trip to theworking place the more they want to relocate to the new place.
The trip that is longer than 120 minutes concludsively triggertheir want to relocate.
Both organization's employees want to have single and townhouse because they can own the sitting land.
The project housesare prefered.
The factors for choosing the residence are price,location, transportation and adjacent area to the working office.
Most of them want modern-designed house with the price betweenamount of Baht 750,000-1,500,000 and the instalment option.
SCB'semployees prefer the location in Ladphrao, Bang Bua Thong, RamIntra and Chaeng Wattana.
CAT's employees prefer Chaeng Wattana,Ram Intra and Rangsit-Pathum Thani.
The lower position employeeslike to be closer to office more than those who are in thehigher position.
The recommendation for the relocation areprovide employee's bus, flat within 2 km.
radian from the newoffice, single and town house in the corperative system, andfinally the low interest housing loan.
The objective of this study is to gain an insight into thedifference in television advertising strategies of major oilcompanies in Thailand during the period of price control andduring the period of price-floating.
The analysis was conductedon each commercial on the basis of communication messages,execution and the concept; together with personal interview withinvolved persons.
From the research findings and from the in-depth analysis,this study finds that advertising strategies from all 4advertising strategies from all 4 major oil companies (PTT,Shell, Esso, and Caltex) have shifted their focus after theprice-floating policy was introduced.
Their strategiccommunications are more emphasized on product advertising ratherthan the corporate image building as it was.
Moreover,advertising budget for product advertising have increaseddrastically.
Even though all the brands seem to promote a similar uniqueselling point in their strategic communication, "SocialContribution" on corporate image advertising while focusing"Quality Product Innovator" on product advertising, they dodifferentiate the positioning among themselves.
The purpose of this Thesis is to study the laws concerningtelecommunications services in Thailand and to analyze whetherthose laws are suitable to the country's economic, social andtechnology development.
The author analyzes international trends and factors whichare assential to bring about changes in any given society.
Further the author undertakes comparative study of variousforeign laws in order to determine modern legal principlesgoverning telecommunications industry.
The author also reviewscurrent development in Thai government's policy and legislativehistory in order to ascertain appropriate framework for adoptingregulatory regime most suitable to the Thai context.
The author finds that the present conceptual framework forregulating telecommunication services in Thailand has a built-incriteria and social priority that are not suitable for thecurrent economic, social and technological settings.
Furthermore, Thailand does not have the publictelecommunications law which establish rights and duties as wellas conferring just and equitable benefit to those who areinvolved in the market such as providers of service, consumer andgeneral welfare of the economy.
Most of all, Thai telecommunication laws maintain differentand contradictory set of value judgment.
It is proposed that Thailand should set new conceptualframework for regulating telecommunication services that are inline with changes in social, economic and technologicaladvancement.
The new conceptual framework should be based ondecisions of the following considerations.
1. establishing national telecommunications policy.
2. separating the role of regulator and operator.
3. increasing private participation.
4. privatizing the state owned enterprises (TOT and CAT).
5. enacting a public telecommunications law.
The objective of this research is to study the use of massmedia by the Catholic Social communications Center of Thailand toevangelize the Catholic principles.
Results indicate that the Catholic Social CommunicationsCenter of Thailand has been designated by the Vatigan to transmitthe Catholic ideology by using mass media as a means to link theCatholic institution and the Thai public.
The Center operatesunder the structure of a non-profit, voluntary organization.
The Center has adopted the social marketing approach as itsmass media strategy.
As a result, it uses mass media primarily tocreate the awareness and the understanding of the religion amongthe public, but not as much to induce belief or faith, to createthe acceptance of the ideology or to turn the Catholic principlesinto practices.
This study aims at examining factors influencing theprogram layout of the A.M. and F.M.radio channels operated by theBangkok Based Territorial Defence Radio Broadcasting Station(TDRBS) during the private renting period from l987-1992.
In thisqualitative research, data were collected by depth interviews andparticipation observation technique.
The study indicates that since 1987, there have been twotypes of factors influencing the program layout planning:fixedfactors and related operation factors.
Fixed factors include thebroadcast system, the target audience, the broadcast time and theradio producers.
Related operation factors include the station'spolicy, the station management, the radio producers of the F.M.station, the media brokers, the station's regulations and theprogram evaluation process.
Among these factors, the station'spolicy makers and the media brokers are considered as the mostinfluential factors.
The problems in program layout planning occurred primarilyfrom the change in the management policy and from the fact thatthe staff do not have sufficient knowledge in program layoutplanning.
To solve the problems the researcher suggests that thestation management should study and try to have a thoroughunderstanding of the radio station's management process.
Inaddition, the station should assign staff members with knowledgeand experience in mass communications and program layout planninghandle the program layout planning job.
The purposes of this study are to investigate therelationship among factors namely demographic variables,socio-economic, status, and communication and self care behaviorof sexual transmitted diseased clinical patients.
Data werecollected from 360 female prostitutes and male patients ofveneral disease and AIDS clinics in Bangkok Metropolitan Area.
Questionnaire forms were administered to subjects through theprocess of clinical visit.
Percentage, t-test, Pearson productmoment correlation coefficients and Multiple Regression Analysiswere used to analysis data through SPSS/PC('+) program.
Results indicated that:
1. Subject exposed to AIDS information from televisioninterpersonal media and specialized media respectively.
In termsof opportunity to receive AIDS information, subjects had frominterpersonal media followed by newspaper and television.
Newspaper were found to give understanding to them more thanother types of media followed by interpersonal media andtelevision.
As for AIDS information gratification sought,newspapers were found to serve this function the best, followedby television and specialized media.
2. Age, formal education, income, years of having sexualexperience and V.D. experience were found to be correlated withexposure to AIDS information through newspapers.
Formaleducation, income, years of having sexual experience and V.D.experience were found to be correlated with exposure to AIDSinformation through magazines and journals.
Years of havingsexual experience and V.D. experience were found to be related toexposure to AIDS information through radio.
Formal education,income and years of having sexual experience were found to berelated to AIDS information exposure from television andspecialized media.
Finally, formal education, income, and V.D.experience were found to be correlated with exposure to AIDSinformation from interpersonal media.
3. Age, formal education, income, years of having sexualexperience and V.D. experience were found to be correlated withAIDS preventive self care behavior.
4. AIDS information exposure through newspapers journalsand interpersonal media were found to be related to AIDSpreventive self care behavior.
5. Male AIDS and V.D. clinic attendants were more activethan female prostitutes in terms of exposure of AIDS informationthrough media and AIDS preventive self care behavior.
6. Formal education is the most important factor thatexplain AIDS information exposure through mass media.
Inaddition, AIDS information exposure is the most important factorsthat explained AIDS preventive self care behavior.
The purpose of this study is to evaluate theperformance of the South Asian Association for RegionalCo-operation (SAARC) in the 1980'&.
This period washighlighted by the efforts of this Association toestablish regional co-operation and its implementationof its policy in order to point out its development,co-operation and conflicts between SAARC's memberstates, as well as the future trend of the Association.
The finding of this study show that the rationalebehind the establishment of SAARC derived from thefollowing considerations;
(1) Unlike other regionswhich have developed cooperative agencies forconsultation on a regional basis, South Asia had nosuch equivalent.
(2) This type cooperative organizationwould help different countries in this region to copemore effectively with the poverty in their region whichis one of the poorest in the world.
(3) South AsianCooperation will strengthen the bargainning power ofthe South in any North-South negotiation as well ascontribute to Global South-South cooperation.
(4)Regional cooperation in South Asia is likely tostrengthen its voice effectively in internationalforums.
(5) Regional Cooperation may help reducepolitical tension in South Asia.
(6) The joint ventureprogrammes of SAARC can greatly curtail the dominantrole of the transnational corporations etc.
South Asian Association for regional cooperationwas established on the initiative of the formerPresident Ziaur Rahman of Bangladesh in the half of1980'&.
SAARC has developed a organizational structurefor cooperation its member states, especially in thefollowing fields (1) Agriculture (2) Health andPopulation (3) Meteorology (4) Postal Service (5)Prevention of Drug Trafficking and Abuse (6) RuralDevelopment (7) Science and Technology (8) Sports, Artand Culture (9) Telecommunications (10) Transport (11)Women in Development (12) Audio-vision Exchange (13)organized Tourism (14) Documentation (15) SAARC Chairs,Fellowships and Scholarships (16) Youth VolunteerExchange (17) Prevent of Terrorism etc.
However, this region is still plagued by numerousconflicts largely attributable to India with itsimperialist policy.
These conflicts can be grouped asfollows: (1) Conflicts between India and Pakistan (2)Conflicts between India and Bangladesh (3) Conflictsbetween India and Sri Lanka (4) Conflicts between Indiaand its neighboring Nepal, Maldives and Bhutan.
The findings of the study can be summarized asfollow.
SAARC's early founding efforts were marked byregional conflicts which hindered the Association frombecoming a true Supra-National organization of regionalcooperation. To avoid
The purpose of this research was to study relationshipbetween social variable and organizational communicationsatisfaction and job satisfaction of the Bangkok Mass TransitAuthority's Employees.
Questionnaires were used to collect datafrom a total of 400 samples.
Frequency, percentage, mean,Pearson's product moment correlation coefficient, Chi-square testand multiple correlation were employed for the analysis of data.
SPSS('x) program was used for data processing.
The results of the study were as follows: 1. In terms of organizational communication satisfaction,fidings show that supervisors are the best indicator ofcommunication satisfaction.
2. In terms of job satisfaction, findings show thatsupervision is the best indicator of job satisfaction.
3. Most of the employees have organizational communicationsatisfaction and job satisfaction at the moderate level.
4. There is a significant positive relationship amongsocial variable such as age, education, duration of work andorganizational communication satisfaction.
5. There is a significant negative relationship betweeneducation and job satisfaction.
6. A significant positive relationship was found betweenorganizational communication satisfaction and job satisfaction ina Pearson product moment analysis.
7. In a multiple correlation analysis findings show thatorganizational communication satisfaction can mutually explainapproximately 49 percent variation of job satisfaction.
This research is aimed at studying the connectionbetween retail stock investors' individual backgrounds (suchas education, experience, marital status, etc.) andinvestment behaviours, and the way they acquire informationand expose to the media.
This study also looks into the wayretail investors treat the information they receive.
Inaddition, it investigates retail investors' need forinformation in different market conditions.
The data werecollected through interviews of investors.
It was found that: 1. Retail investors' differences in income areunrelated to the way they get information and expose to themedia.
However, findings showed female investors tend torely on rumours and expose to interpersonal channelcommunications more than their male counterparts.
2. The type and experience of retail investors have noinfluence on how they get information and expose to themedia.
3. Most retail investors expose to the print mediamore than the electronic media (radio and television), theinterpersonal-channel and electronic devices likestock-price electronic boards, computers and telephones.
4. Retail investors' need for information differs indifferent market periods, as follows: - When trading is normal, the investors needinformation about fundamental and technical factors morethan when stock prices tumble.
- When trading is brisk, they need information onparticular stocks from the mass media more than when tradingis slow and when prices tumble.
During this period, theinvestors also need to know about major current news morethan when trading is slow, and about rumours more than whentrading is normal and slow.
- When prices tumble, the investors need to knowabout major current news from the mass media more than whentrading is slow, and about rumours more than when trading isnormal and slow.
- When trading is slow, the investors need to knowinformation less than in other market periods.
The objectives of this thesis are to study thefundamental and rationale of the Minis terial regulationsfor high-rise building, to analyse the opinions ofentrepreneur, architect, engineer and civil service who getinvolved with these regulations, and to recommendimprovement guideline of these ministerial regulations forthe future.
The research was conducted by studying the involvedperiodicals, journals, textbook and Ministerial regulationsin the country and abroad.
The research sampling was dividedinto 3 groups which were high-rise resident enterprenour,architect and engineer and civil service.
The sampling waspurposive sampling, the sample size was 20 per groups andthe total were 60 samples.
The result of the study showed that the ministerialregulations in controlling high-rise building resulted innegative impact for economic housing development which wereinvestment, cost, residential price, profit including theopportunity of people to own resident.
However, it resultedin positive impact for housing development in social,environment and physicals which were safety of residentialowner, the better of quality of life, traffic, perspectiveand environmental society.
The samples stated that the existing ministerialregulations in controlling high-rise building wereappropriated, but they should include some stipulationswhich were constructed material standard, saved energy,building safety check, traffic, bonus provision toentrepreneurs who sacrificed for social, telecommunicationsystem and floor area ratio (F.A.R.) should differ due tocity plan.
The objective of this thesis is to apply the GeographicInformation Systems technique for the study on land uses andrelated problems, factors that may determine or constrain to landuses, analysis of potentials and trends as well asrecommendations on land use planning in Trat Province.
Thesoftware or the applied program is PC ARC/INFO.
The thesis found that Trat Province is on the undulatingbringing about diversity and richness of natrual resources whichare the basic factors for economic development.
In the past,these natural resources have been utilized for such activities asagriculture, mining, fisheries and tourism, in particularprecious stone mining which is the most important cause of Landuse changes and has affected other land uses.
Spatial analysis in Trat Province has revealed that most ofthe problems are relating to natrual resources which are dealingwith physical aspects.
This also has an impact on Socio-economicproblems, in particular soil, water and forest resources.
Themost severe problems are found in the district of Khao Saming, BoRai and part of Leam Ngop.
The land use planning of Trat Province will emphasize onphysical problem solving.
The concept is that agricultrualdevelopment should be in line with tourism development andenvironmental conservation.
The future land use plan to the year2011 is proposed to divide Trat Province into 3 zones :preservation, conservation and development areas.
In addition, aphysical development plan to support the mentioned land use planwill involve communications network development plan, economiccenter and infrastructure development plan of Trat Province.
Concerning to the application of GIS for Trat Province'sland use planning, it is found that the system effectively andefficiently facilitates the spatial analysis.
However, it isimportant that users must fully understand the planning processand have the basic knowledge in computer as well as the softwareso that the GIS system can be fully utilized for planningactivity.
The objectives of this research are to understand thecharacteristics and patterns of telecommunication via satelliteservices operated by the Communications Authority of Thailandincluding the management process of rendering services to massmedia in facilitating the flows of information in 1989-1991.
Theconcepts of "services" and "telecommunication via satellitesystem" are used as the theoretical framework to analyse theproblems.
The outcomes of this research are summarized asfollows: The results of the study are: The Communications Authority of Thailand has itsresponsibility as a transmission Telecommunication via satelliteservice unit for mass media in facilitating the flows ofinformation.
Services rendered can be classified into twocategories.
They are 1) as a channel in one-way linkcommunication and 2) as a circuits in full two-way linkcommunication.
The traffic of the first one has been using bymass media more than the second one.
The management process of rendering services have no needto concern in the aspect of the marketing competition.
Accordingto that the major service is emphasized on providing the fullpotential equipment of the modern high-technology rather thaninteracting to the real needs of the service users.
This thesis's describes the design,development andconstruction of Remote Data Acquisition and Control System viaRS-485.
The design follows OSI standard with 2 layers.
Thephysical layer is according to RS-485 standard.
The data linklayer uses unbalance-congigured HDLC protocol in Normal ResponseMode(NRM).
The system consists of a primary station and 31secondary stations.
The primary station is served as Man MachineInterface and controls all the communications in the system.
Thesecondary stations response to the command sent by the primarystation.
There are 5 types of secondary stations:digitalinput,digital output,analog input,l-5 Vdc analog output and 0-10Vdc analog output.
Each digital I/O type can handle 16 signalswhile each analog I/O type can handle 6 signals.
Maximum speed of data transfer can be up to 7,200 bits persecond within 1,320 metre.
The test in laboratory shows satisfactory results.
Thesystem can be developed to be an industrial prototype.
This research was designed to study the teamwork of nursinginstructors, nursing colleges under the jurisdiction of theMinistry of Public Health, and to search for the variables thatwould be able to predict the teamwork of nursing instructors.
Thesubjects consisted of 295 nursing instructors with at least oneyear experience selected by multi-stage random sampling.
Researchinstruments, developed by the researcher, were workingenvironment and teamwork questionnaires which were tested for thevalidity and reliability.
The major findings were as followed : 1. Mean scores of teamwork of nursing instructors were inthe good level.
When devided teamwork into six aspects : clearobjectives and agreed goals, open communications, workco-operation, sound procedures, individual development, andregular review, the means of the first four aspects were at thegood level, whereas those of the latter aspects were at themedium level.
2. There were positively significant relationships betweenage, experience, physical environment, leader behaviors,relationships among educators, and the teamwork of nursinginstructors (r = .24, .27, .47, .63, .68 respectively) at the .05level, but there was no significant relationship between groupsize and the teamwork.
3. Factors significantly predicted teamwork of nursingeducators were relationships among educators, leader behaviors,physical environment, and experience at the .05 level.
Thesepredictors accounted for 59.27 of the varience.
(R = .5927)
The objectives of this research were to outlinestructure, system, conflicts, and how to solveconflicts in a medium-sized advertising agency, as herenamed DDB Needham.
The research methods used werepersonal interviews and participation observations withits ex-employees, which are based on OrganizationTheory.
The system of a medium-sized agency is veryflexible.
During a normal period, its system is similarto that of agencies of other sizes.
But when it comesto crisis, some of the (traditional) processes mighthave to be skipped as deemed necessary.
In the workprocesses during a crisis, all-channel communications,with a majority of horizontal communications, will befrequently employed.
Furthermore, most of the conflicts emerge betweengroup or departments in the organizations are a resultof the lacks of information, different objectives, orpersonal behavior.
The most frequently and probablybest solution used to solve conflicts in throughpersonal conversations.
Other solutions includeassigning "Buffer" position like Traffic co-ordinatoras well as using circulated documents.
Advertising agency's conflicts are based onInteractions Approach which does not always regardconflicts as destructive but as routine and evenconstructive which help produce better creative works.
The purpose of this research was to proposed model ofa Medical Academic Resource Center.
The samples used in thestudy consisted of 17 specialists in audio-visualcommunications.
The Delphi technique was designed togenerate group consensus by using five rating scalequestionnaire.
The median and interquartile range were usedto analyze the data.
Findings were considered as thecriteria when the median value was at least 3.50 and theinterquartile range not more than 1.50.
The final consensus were considered as a model of aMedical Academic Resource Center.
They were: 1. The utility of Medical Academic Resource center inMedical Academic field.
2. The role of Medical Academic Resource Center.
3. The administration of Medical Academic ResourceCenter.
4. The applied technology in Medical Academic ResourceCenter.
5. The organizations of Medical Academic ResourceCenter.
6. The management in providing materials, equipmentsand media in Medical Academic Resource Center.
7. The choice in selecting materials, equipments andmedia in Medical Academic Resource Center.
8. The evaluation of materials, equipments and mediain Medical Academic Resource Center.
9. The budget in Medical Academic Resource Center.
10. The services in Medical Academic Resource Center.
11. The appropriate opening time of Medical AcademicResource Center.
The purpose of this research was to study imageof Airports Authority of Thailand and communicationsatisfaction among government officials and privateemployees working in the area of Bangkok InternationalAirport.
Questionnaires were used to collect data froma total of 410 samples.
Frequency, Percentage, Mean andOne Way Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) were employed forthe analysis of data.
SPSS('X) program was used fordata processing.
The results of the research were as follows: 1. Government officials and Private employees working in the area of Bangkok International Airport have different images towards Airports Authority of Thailand.
2. Government officials and Private employees working in the area of Bangkok International Airport have different levels of communication satisfaction from Airports Authority of Thailand.
Changwat Phetchaburi itself is an ancient livinghistorical community, since she has been established 1200B.E.
Their growth and status changed urbanization communityall the time.
According to the 6th National Economic andSocial Development Plan, to up grade Changwat Phetchaburi tobe Second Western Middle Plain Province, an including Cha-umSea Resort Development Planning Promotion, that would be thegreat impact effect to: The Physical Condition,Demographycal, Econoincal, and Sociological problems intothe provincial level and municiple community itself.
Thatneed request about environment conservation of distantperiod, cultutal resort and artistic value to be synchronousdone with the urbanization, development.
There are several objective of the studying as: Tostudy the existing condition of the Phetchaburi community.
To study the historic places in scope of the origin,artistic and historical value.
To study the existinghistorical places, contexts and surrounding relationship.
Including creativity suggestion proposal for conservationmethod the Phetchaburi community development programme .
The study process is divided in three stages: To studyprimary and secondary information.
To evaluated ofconservation, and community development, and the finalprocess is to propose a recommendation report of TheConservation Historical Places and Community DevelopingProgramme.
The case study are found, There are two kind ofcommunity growth.
The growth direction spread out from the municipalboundary.
Other high density growth in the municiple that bea great impact to the historical sites, both in historicalplaces, zone and downtown communities, that contraceptionplaces and communities.
In the case of historical sites should be limited thegrowth density.
But in existing case community intruded andsurround along boundary frame.
The contexts of mixinglanduse, traffic and communication net work, the open -space and park area shortage.
And historical place are inlimited enclosure.
That result of communities invading tohistorical places.
The conclusion propose are divided in to two stages:The political stage, the township community stage.
Theobjective of Rolitical stage is to educate, intensiveinformation knowledge of conservation and development forthe planner, government employees, whole concern to projectin the community and provicial level to the public toorganize and generated.
The planning objective willsuccessive, because of out- standing and accessible imply onconservation concept and direction of community developmentobjective.
The objective of township community stage theconservation and community development are devided 2 zone :The outer plain boundary for township expansion in futureand inner boundary for conservation and urbanisationcommunity.
The propose are : rezone of landuse, theinfrastructure system reform, the traffic and communicationsystem conversion, the touring circle systems.
That will be addup the relationip and co-existingbetween histrorical place and the township with harmonous.
Thesis Statement : The purposes of this study were toconduct a textual analysis as well as stylistic Techniquesof Prayoon Chanyavongs' Cartoons and thus to evaluate thecommunication strategies for public health issues.
In thisstudy, 285 series of health related cartoons entitled"KABUAN KAN KAE JON" which were daily published in Thai Ratawill were analyed.
It was found that the health care informationpresented in Prayoon's cartoons could be categorized into 4main topics, namely health promotion, prevention, curationand rehabilitation.
Emphasis was greatly placed on healthpromotion.
However, the information was proven to beaccurate and practical.
In terms of stylistic presentation the techniques ofnarration and dialogue were employed to describe an accountof events in Prayoon's cartoon.
In addition, the teachingtechnique through an unofficial language enable the publicfully understand.
More importantly, this series of cartoonwas accessible to everyone since it was daily published inThai Rata famous newspaper which was distributednation-wide.
To promote public health concerns through Prayoon'scartoons was evaluated by experts a better communicationstrategy than that found via other sources.
His effectivetechniques in blending health knowledge with theentertaining cartoon characters was proved beneficial topeople from various social economic groups.
He thereforedeserved to acquire a public recognition as the most famouscartoonist and journalist of Thailand.
The objectives of this study are to examine theprocess of making and maintaining popularity of TV.
moderators through qualitative research.
The samples of thestudy are selected from eight well-known TV.
moderators incontemporary period.
The finding of this study are as follows: -The factors which influence the process of makingpopularity- of TV moderators are personality, communicationskill, working condition and image-making.
-The factors which influence the process ofmaintaining popularity of TV moderators, on the other hand,are the ability to control the quality of work and theability to maintain self-image.
Both are the dual processwhich must process simultanously in the same direction.
The main purpose of the research is to find theorganization images reflected in Thai newspaper concerningthe Three-Million-Lines Telephone Expansion Project.
Theresearch methodologies concerned are content analysis tolocate the images and the survey of 100 subscribersinhabitant in Bangkok and some major provinces to recheckthe reflection.
The result of the research could be summed up that theimage result as cause by 12 newspaper reflects thatTelecomAsia Corporation Limited Public Company (TA) holdsthe most positive image, follow by Telephone Organization ofThailand (TOT) and Thai Telephone & TelecommunicationsLimited Public Company respectively and the Ministry ofTransport and Communications (MOTC) was neutral.
Comparingbetween the images as reflected in the two types ofnewspapers, it is found that the images are found to besignificantly different in such the way that among the 4organization concerned the main images tends to be positivein case of TA and TT&T tends to be negative in case of TOTand tends to be neutral in case of MOTC.
As appeared inbusiness newspapers the images of all 3 organizations TA,TOT and TT&T appears to be positive whereas MOTC appears tobe neutral.
100 telephone subscribers enrolled in the fieldinterview, however, had a reverse point of view, that is,TOT is considered as the most favorable, followed by TA,while TT&T and MOTC is reported of neutral issue.
Regardingpositive qualifications of organizational images, TOT hadmost noticeable qualities among other organizations,followed by TA while those of TT&T and MOTC were average.
Comparing the study on organizational images from thetwo aforementioned sources, the evidence, conclusively,provided obviously distinctive difference results.
Right to Privacy is a natural fundamental right whichis created at the time a person is born.
It is the right fora person to freely live by his/her own choice.
This rightclosely attaches to a society.
When individual does not wantother sections or even his state to intervene his personalactivity, it is called "Privacy."
Whereas people have a right to know whatever happensin their society through various media, both mass andinterpersonal communication, it seems more and moredifficult for individual to claim for his"Right to Privacy.
"This is due to the fact that the communications ofinformation has been speedily developed by modern devices inorder to meet with the society which at the same timeswiftly changes into what is called "Information Society.
"This kind of society gives the importance to the informationwhich takes a significant role in making either a personalor business decision.
The development of these devices in accessing as wellas in diffusing the private information results in awide-spread of personal negative impacts which consequentlycause the imbalance between the "Right of Privacy" and the"Communication of Information".
That is there seems to occura disproportion of the development and legal protect for the"Right to Privacy" with such modern media.
In Thailand, in the past the Thai paid very lessattention to the right.
Nevertheless, when we enter into the"Information Society" of which the information is given avery important recognition without the consideration ofthe limitation of its accession and diffusion and suchaccession and diffusion bring about into account howindividual legally has the right on his private informationand how far the communications are legally limited.
Thesenegative impacts are for examples - reputation destruction,irritation, and mental impacts.
This thesis surveyed the Thai existing laws whichconcern the "Right to Privacy" in communication ofinformation comparing with the laws of the United Kingdomand the United States of America.
From the study, it isfounded that the laws of the protection of the "Right toPrivacy" in Thailand is not well-established.
Additionally,they scatter in various private and public laws.
There is nospecific relating statute.
In case that individual isinjured by a violation of the "Right to Privacy" regardingindividual fact from either public or interpersonalcommunications, only the Tort Law, Section 420 is capable tobe applied.
This is considered to be the violation of "AnyRight of Another Person" which may be atoned by acompensation according to the Section 438.
In conclusion,this thesis suggested the prevention to the violation of the"Right to Privacy" and the control of the informationcommunications.
In so doing, There must be the accessibilitycontrol device at the same time it is proposed that thepossessor of the information should have a duty to keep suchinformation out of any infringement.
The objectives of the research are to analyse the Thaimerchant maritime publications in terms of publishers,types, contents and published year; and to study theinformation resources in terms of quantity, types andcontents of publications as well as the problems of thesources.
The research aims to benifit both the librarians inproviding a better services and the users in acquiring thepublications.
The methods of study are to survey 17 libraries whichcollects the Thai merchant maritime publications, interview17 librarians or heads of the information resources, and toanalyse the publications contained in each resources.
The study reveals that most of the publications areproduced by government agencies.
Most of them are researchesand the contents concern mostly with maritime transport.
Furthermore, most of them are published during the year 2521B.E.- 2530 B.E.
The surveys of the 17 libraries lead to find that thelibrary which has the most merchant maritime publications isthe library of the Merchant Marine Institute, ChulalongkornUniversity and the second is the library of the Office ofthe Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Transport andCommunications.
Most of the publications are serialpublications and the contents concern with maritimetransport.
The facilities generally provided by thelibraries are reading room and reference services.
Moreover, most services are circulating service, clipping,indexing of periodicals, duplicating, and databasesearching.
The problem which the libraries face is inadequatepublications to serve the users.
The important problems aremost of the merchant maritime publications are imported andthey are quite expensive.
There are a few of Thaipublications and they are published in limited quantity, andlack of specialised librarians in the field of maritimetransport.
The purpose of this research is to study theinformation needs of engineers and technicians, TelecomAsiaCorporation Public Co.,Ltd. including its purpose, content,format, language, up-to-dateness, and source of information.
This study has found that engineers and techniciansneed information for 5 purposes at high level (for jobrelated activities, continuing education, personal needs,relaying information to others, and research).
They need thebasic information content in the fields of science andengineering at high level while they need information ontelecommunications at the highest level.
The format ofinformation that is most needed is the operation manualwhile there is a low level of need for thesis.
There is thehighest need for Thai language while there is a high needfor English.
There is the highest need for most recentinformation (less than 1 year old) and a low need foranything that is more than 10 years old.
There is a highneed for the source of information by inquiring colleagues/company's technical advisors, bookstores, and other personalsources at high level while there is a low need from theprofessional association.
The purpose of the research is to study theapplication of information system to manage data in buildingconstruction.
The research was emphasized on data that wereused between contractors and owners.
The research beginswith the study of the problems caused by lack of datacommunications; the types of data used in buildingconstruction are then grouped.
The data was collected bymeans of questionnaires from 5 high-rise building projectsin Bangkok.
From the questionnaires, the group of data wasanalyzed to find out the appropriate data flows system byusing the methodology of information system developmentespecially in the part of the System Development Life Cycle(SDLC) and the Data Flow Diagrams (DFD).
It was found that, the problems caused by lack of datacommunications actually exist between contractors and ownersin building construction.
Using the application ofinformation system methodology to solve these problems, itwas enable to group the data for analyzing and show the flowdirection, input-output and filing data for the wholesystem.
The research also suggested data dictionaryprocedure,examples of input data forms and the systemreports.
This objective of this thesis, the Development ofDistributed Files on the DECnet Network (DDFDN), was todevelop the file distribution protocol for computer systemswith centralized processing used in many businessorganizations.
The development was intended to keep theexisting application programs unchanged, to make any changetransparent to the users, and to increase the ability of thesystems to handle more data and users.
The DDFDN was mainlydeveloped for implementation on the Ethernet-based computernetwork using DECnet protocol and was tested with ManagementInformation System for Cellular Services computer network atThe Communications Authority of Thailand (CAT).
This thesis employs the structure analysis and designas the analysis tool to distribute files through out thenetwork.
The DECnet protocol was used to access filesremotely.
The test program to measure response-time andload-capacity was developed by using COBOL program andparameter.
The use of system processing time and powerbefore and after using DDFDN in the system was recorded byutility program of VMS operating system.
By testing DDFDN with the small prototype DECnetcomputer network, the testing result shows that afterdeploying DDFDN, the response time was 145% faster and theload-capacity (system ability) was improved about 80% whencompared to the original network.
Then, the DDFDN was portedto test in the CAT's Management Information System forCellular Services computer network.
The testing result wasstill the same, and also indicates that the computer networkhas more resource available and the users get no effect.
The objectives of this research are to study thedirection, the form, the type of information and alsoto compare the opinions of the administrators, theinformation workers, and the library staff towards thedirection, the form and the type of informationcommunicated in central libraries of private highereducation institutions.
The results of this research concerning directionof communication are as follows: in downward, the formmostly used is verbal informal communication; inupward, the form mostly used is verbal formalcommunication; and in horizontal, the form mostly usedis verbal formal as well as verbal informalcommunications.
The types of information mostly used by theadministrators, the information workers and the librarystaff are: the information of library management, theinformation of library and information science and alsothe information within university/college.
By comparing the opinions of the administrators,the information workers and the library staff towardsthe direction, the form, and the type of information,it is found that some parts of the result aredifferent.
The objective of this study is to analyze thesocio-economic contest of housing which is related toconsumption sign through media.
Baudrillard'sconsumption of the sign condept is used as theoreticalframework for qualitative analysis of housingadvertisement samples collected from 3 mewapaper (ThaiRath, Prachachart Turakij and Than Settakij) duringoctober - november 1995.
The research reveals that housing advertisementsin consumer society creating more symbloic exchangevalue and sign value than exchange value.
Alsoconnotative meaning has become social meaning in orderthat house as a maker or means for communications withwith each other.
In this sense, various dimensions ofhouse demonstrate symbolic sign in particular socialstatrs taste and lifestyle.
And the meaning of housebecome more "commodity sign" then dwellings.
The purpose of this research is to identify :
1. thepresent and the future status of marketing communication ofThai popular-song tape cassette business.
2. the purchasingbehavior of Bangkok youth.
3. the correlation between theexposure of marketing information, interpersonalcommunication behavior, marketing communication factors andpurchasing behavior of Bangkok youth .
4. the marketingcommunication factors that predict the purchasing behaviorof Bangkok youth.
Two respondents groups.
were used for datacollection.
One group consisted of 300 Bangkok youths, datacollection by questionnaire interview.
The second groupcomprises of eight Thai popularsong tape cassette productioncompanies, data collection by questionnaire in-depthinterview.
Results are as follows:
1. The present status inthe conduct of marketing communications of Thai popular songtape cassettes emphasizes message construction of "product"marketing communication and promotion by fostering mainlyartists' innovative concepts.
As for future tendencies, thecontent, essence of song, and projected images will followthe present trends, but will emphasize the development ofthe artists' singing talents.
The competition in marketingcommunication of "promotion" will underscore specialinnovative techniques in presentation for future marketingcommunications.
2. the purchasing behavior of Bangkok youthcannot be clearly defined.
3. the exposure of Thai popularsong tape cassettes and interpersonal communicative behaviordo not correlate with purchasing behavior of Bangkok youths.
4. Thai popular song tape cassette marketing communicationfactors are positively correlated with purchasing behaviorof Bangkok youth .
5. the marketing communication of"product" was the best predictor of purchasing behavior ofBangkok youth.
The objective of this research was to studydesirable competencies of professional nurse regardingpublic relations, regional and medical centers andgeneral hospitals, under the jurisdiction of theMinistry of Public Health.
The populations were theexperts in nursing, public health and communicationarts and public relations.
The sample of 26 expertswere selected by purposive sampling technic.
The twosteps of research were employed.
1) Interviewed 9public relations personels, who were public relationsnurses in govenment and private hospitals and publicrelations man in service bussiness.
2) Extract contentsfrom the interviews to construct the questionaire.
There were three steps of constructing the questionairein order to find out opinion of 26 experts by usingdelphi tecnique.
The first step was to construct anopen-end questionaire, the second and the third stepswere constructed a questionaire which acquired contentin the first steps.
The data analysis were perfomed byusing median, mode, and interquatile range.
The major result was as follows : Desirable competencies of professional nurseregarding public relations are 97 items, of 4competercies:
1)Attribute competencies in appearanceand charactoristics.
2)Professional competercies
3)Communications competencies
4)Relationshipestablishment and understanding competencies.
Withinthese 97 items, 62 items have been found at the highestlevel and 35 items were the high level of desirablecompetencies.
The purposes of this research were
(1) to studycommunication strategies in the bill board Advertisinglocated on the Express Way;
(2) to analyze the maincharacteristics of content and format presentation asappeared in the bill boards during January-December of1996.
Survey of 174 Bill Board Advertisements alongwith in-depth interviews of ad agencies were undertakenwithin a conceptual framework of the communicationstrategy approach.
Results indicated that an advertising budget wasa dominant factor determining the objectives ofadvertising on the bill boards.
There was adiversification of product categories approachingvarious classes of prospects.
Advertising of realestate products was found to be predominant amongothers.
Their presentation strategies were an emphasison more verbal than visual messages.
To conclude,traffic problem was found as the main factor tofacilitate the popularity of the bill board advertisingas the way they are.
The purpose of this research is to investigatethe relationships between communication patterns,communication satisfaction and job satisfaction of Thaiemployees in multinational companies, comparing betweenJapanese and American companies in Bangkok.
Questionnaires were used to collect data from 929 Thaiemployees which comprise of 492 employees in Japanesecompanies and 437 employees in American companies.
Frequency, percentage, mean, Pearson's Pruduct MomentCorrelation Coefficient and t-test analysis were usedto analyze data through SPSS for Windows computerprogram.
Results of research were as follows:
1. The frequencies of using communication channelsbetween Japanese and American companies are different.
2. American companies support staff to go fortrainings and seminars more than Japanese companieswhile both Japanese and American companies have thesame level of frequency for staff meetings.
3. There are significant positive relationshipsbetween two way communication and communicationsatisfaction for both Japanese and American companies.
4. There are significant positive and negativerelationships between formal communication andcommunication satisfaction for both Japanese andAmerican companies.
5. Mostly, there are significant positiverelationships between upward, horizontal andcross-channel communication and communicationsatisfaction for both Japanese and American companies.
6. There are significant positive relationshipsbetween communication climate and communicationsatisfaction for both Japanese and American companies.
7. There are significant positive relationshipsbetween communication satisfaction and job satisfactionfor both Japanese and American companies.
8. There are significant difference incommunication patterns, communication satisfaction andjob satisfaction between Japanese and Americancompanies.
The purpose of this research was to investigatethe relationships among demographic variables,communication behavior and communication satisfactionand job satisfaction of Air Pursers and Cabin Crew ofThai airways International, Public Company Limited.
Questionnaires were used to collect data from 130 AirPursers and 400 Cabin Crew.
Percentage, mean, t-testand Pearson's Product Moment Correlation Coefficientanalysis were used to analyze data through SPSScomputer program.
Results of the research are as follows:
1. Mostly, there were no relationships betweendemographic variables and communication and jobsatisfaction of cabin crew except Air Pursers'communication behavior on job follow-up which resultedin a correlation between sex and communicationsatisfaction of Cabin Crew and correlations amongeducation, communication satisfaction and jobsatisfaction of Cabin Crew.
2. There were relationships between Air Pursers'communication behavior and Cabin Crew's communicationsatisfaction and job satisfaction.
3. There was a relationship between Cabin Crew'scommunication satisfaction and job satisfaction.
4. Mostly, there were no relationships betweenAir Pursers' demographic variables and theircommunication satisfaction and job satisfaction exceptcommunication behavior of Cabin Crew regarding theirattention to Air Pursers' instruction which led to acorrelation between Air Pursers' age and theircommunication satisfaction and correlations between AirPursers' education, communication satisfaction and jobsatisfactions.
5. There were relationships among Cabin Crew'scommunication behavior and Air Pursers' communicationsatisfaction and job satisfaction.
6. There was a relationship between Air Pursers'communication satisfaction and job satisfaction.
The purpose of this research is to survey thelevel of organizational communication satisfaction, thelevel of job satisfaction, and the relationship betweendemographic factors and organizational communicationsatisfaction, demographic factors and job satisfaction,and organizational communication and job satisfactionof the employees of Metropolitan waterworks Authority's.
Questionnaires were used to collect data from a totalof 304 samples.
Percentage, means, Pearson Correlation,ANOVA and t-test were used to analyze data through SPSSprogram.
The results of this research are as follows:
1. Most of the employees have organizationalcommunication satisfaction and job satisfaction at themoderate level.
2. In term of organizational communicationsatisfaction, finding show that the high degree ofemployees relationships are the best indicator oforganizational communication satisfaction.
3. There is a singificant negative relationshipsbetween sex, age, position. and organiaztionalcommunication satisfaction, and a significant positiverelationship between salary, education, duration ofwork and organizational communication satisfaction.
4. There is a significant negative relationshipsbetween sex, age, education, position, and jobsatisfaction, and a significant positive relationshipbetween salary, duration of work and job satisfaction.
5. A significant positive relationship was foundbetween organizational communication satisfaction andjob satisfaction in a pearson correlation analysis.
The objectives of this research were to study therelationships between the Royal Orchid Plus members'media and other collateral exposure and the members'knowledge gained from the exposure, as well as theirattitude towards the Royal Orchid Plus Program.
Anotheraspect researched was the relationships between RoyalOrchid Plus members' media and other collateralexposure towards their opinions regarding theeffectiveness of both mass media communications andthose communications produced directly by the RoyalOrchid Plus Program.
The differences between RoyalOrchid Plus members' demographic profile and theirmedia and other collateral exposure and their attitudetowards the Royal Orchid Plus Program were alsoinvestigated.
The research used questionaires as ameans of collecting data from 549 Royal Orchid Plusmembers residing in Bangkok.
The data was analyzed bymeans of percentage, t-test, one way analysis ofvariance (ANOVA) and Pearson Product Moment CorrelationCoefficient.
The research reveals that Royal Orchid Plusmembers' exposure to Sawasdee magazines, folders,direct mails, posters, magazines and stickers ispositively related to Royal Orchid Plus members'knowledge and attitude towards the Royal Orchid PlusProgram.
The Royal Orchid Plus members' media and othercollateral exposure and their opinion regarding theeffectiveness of the Royal Orchid Plus Public RelationsProgram in affecting members' knowledge and members'memory retention are positively related.
The RoyalOrchid Plus members' demographic profile issignificantly related to their media and othercollateral exposures. Members' sex is able to explaintheir exposure to Sawasdee magazines, Kinnareemagazines, leaflets, direct mails and THAI staffs.
Members' age is related to their magazines' exposure.
Members' education is related to their exposure toSawasdee magazines and stickers.
Members' occupation isrelated to their exposure to magazines.
Members' incomeis related to their exposure to folders and directmails.
But members' marital status is not related toany media or collateral exposures.
No significantrelationships is found between Royal Orchid Plusmembers' demographics and their attitude towards theRoyal Orchid Plus Program.
Most of the Royal OrchidPlus members surveyed have a basic level of knowledgeand a neutral attitude towards the program.
This thesis aims to study the copywriting processof Thai copywriters by replicating a study by Arthur J.Kover.
The results of the study show that the copywritingprocess of Thai copywriters also possess an internaldialogue similar to Kover' findings in his research oncopywriter's implicit theories of communications.
It isapparent in the study that Thai and New Yorkcopywriters, whose culture and environment are muchdifferent, have similar copywriting process.
However, there are some differences in the wayThais approach to communication.
Thai copywriterscommunicate with ideal viewer, either as a specific oras a group, while New York copywriters only communicatewith specific ideal viewer.
To break through to theviewer, Thai copywriters use subverting way more thanforcing as New York copywriters do.
This thesis presents a design and development ofmanagement program for Batch Control Systems.
Theprogram is based on Standard ISA-S88.01-1995 (BatchControl).
Due to it's modular structure, the programcan be easily modified or expanded in the future.
Thedeveloped program can be described in to Physical ModelEditor, Recipe Editor, Graphic for Represent RecipeProcedure, Phase and Procedure Monitor, CommunicationSystem Software between Microcomputer and PLC, etc.
Theprogram language is based on Visual Basie.
MicrosoftAccess is used as database software.
The system which consists of IBM PC with developedsoftware and PLC has been tested in laboratory.
Theresult are quite satisfactory.
Propagation of electromagnetic waves through arainfall region is affected by both attenuation anddepolarization.
The depolarization phenomenon causescross-channel interference, which affects performanceof a communications system.
The study of this problem can be done by measuringthe signal in any links and comparing the measuredresults between the no-rain and raining periods.
Thisis not convenient for the preliminary study in order tounderstand rain-induced depolarization mechanisms.
Theauthor has developed an experimental set which canmodel wave propagation through a rainfall region forthe preliminary study.
This experimental set can beadjusted to change some factors affecting propagationcharateristics.
These factors come from the theoreticalanalysis.
The measured results show the differentialattenuation and differential phase shift which areresponsible for the basic depolarization mechanisms.
Although the results are different from the theoreticalresults, this is due to the differences incharacteristics of the real rain and the rain whichcomes from the experimental set.
Therefore it can beconcluded that the experimental set can be used for thepreliminary study of electromagnetic wavedepolarization due to rain.
This thesis presents the design and implementationof the experiment sets for digital communicationsystems using Thai language.
This suite of softwarebased experiment sets operates on a microcomputer.
Themain objective is to support or assist the userlearning and understanding more about digitalcommunication systems theory.
Moreover They alsoeliminate the limitations of hardware based experimentsets using nowadays.
The software tools used are MATLAB version 4.2cl,as a computing engine, together with Microsoft WordThai Edition version 6.0a, as a user interface, and theMicrosoft Internet Assistant hyperlinking allexperiments together.
These experiments use command line input as themain user interface to allow more flexibility inexploring the variation.
The user can interact withthese experiments at two different levels.
At the basiclevel, the user follows the demo-like experiments andchanges parameters with guidance of the questions orhis curiosity.
The user can observe the results andcompare and compare with theoretical predictions.
Atthe advanced level, the user can create the whole newexperiments using the previously learned buildingblocks or functions.
The objective of this research is to create understandingof the presentation procedure of "improvised news" on the oilsituation in Thailand, writers' methods of citing sources of"improvised news", and factors which determine writers' selectionof news on the oil situation for publication.
The researcherhas conducted a study and analysis of data from documents andindividual interview.
This study employed qualitative research guidelines foranalysis texts of "improvised news" on the oil situation cariredby Thai Rath and Daily News newspapers and data obtained frominterviews with writers and sources of news that use this type ofcommunication channel.
The rumour concept of Tamotsu Shibutani,Agenda - Setting Theory and Semiology Theory were used as anapproach to research problems.
It can be summarzed from the study that writers took thefollowing steps to present "improvised news" on the oilsituation.
They discussed news issues which are of publicinterest and made a review of them, checking facts from reliablenews sources.
In some cases where there was no evidence for somenews, writers teased some information into the substance of thearticle to incite the persons concerned to respond by providingadditional information on the the subject.
Sometimes,speculative news was written in order to create a general beliefwhich could serve as a selling point for the newspaper.
Writersattempted to study the data, using their own skill and discretionin decision making, making their own choice to write about, thusrendering their work as independent.
Any references to sources of "improvised news" made bywriters were institutional and not individual, and these newssources were always kept secret.
Factors influencing the selection of contents presented as"improvised news" on the oil situation include the following:news items affecting the general public or deemed to be in thepublic interest, the discretion of the writers and the importantfactor of time limitation.
Selection of news content alsodepended on the sole discretion of writers as well as on theprevalent policies of the newspaper at that time.
It was concluded that "improvised news" is a product ofcommunication networks.
Conveyors of Communications can bedivided into news sources, writers and readers.
Hence writersserve as an important mediator before the information ispresented to the public.
Information received from each conveyortherefore contains elements of interpretation mixed with theopinions based on their individual frame of reference.
From theabove conclusion, it may be said that "improvised news" on theoil situation in Thailand were only "rumour".
The objective of this research is to study and analyzethe problems concerning the audition and pronunciation ofvowels [e], [(...)], [O], [(...)] in French in both stressand unstress positions of the Faculty of Arts's students.
The result of thisresearch states that the students are able to pronounce and hearwell on the half-close vowels [e], [O] while they cannot do wellon the half-open vowels [(...)], [(...)] in both stress and unstresspositions.
Their incapability results from their mother languageinterference, the English language interference, and therestriction of the pronunciation of vowels in French.
The purpose of this research is to study library usesand problems, user satisfaction and the needs for libraryservices of faculty members and students of the Faculty ofEducation, Chulalongkorn University.
The results of the research are summarized as follows:
faculty members visit the library once a week for acirculation services , and know how to use the library fromtheir studies at the bachelor degree level.
Students visitmore than once a week to use a thesis, when they want to doresearchs and during their luisure time, and they know howto use the library by themselves.
On utilization of libraryresources, they use the catalogue cards to search forsources.
Faculty members normally use English books forteaching, while students use Thai ones for learning.
The most common problems that users of the libraryfaced are that text books and reference books are old, indisrepair and out of date, current periodicals are preparedslowly, there are not enough Computers to search for sourcesand a librarian for reference services is lacking.
Regarding user satisfaction and needs, users of thelibrary mainly express high satisfaction with circulationservices and the staff of library.
*Regarding libraryservices, they expresse a high need for database service, aclipping service, a list of thesis, and extending thelibrary's office hours.
The purposes of this research are to investigateinformation seeking behavior and information use ofphysicians in Regional Hospitals in terms of work-relatedinformation seeking purposes, information sources used, theuse and non use of libraries / medical information center,type and subject area of information used and the problemsof information seeking and use.
It is hypothesized that theinformation seeking behavior and information use ofphysicians differed according to the individualcharacteristics and responsibilities.
Three hundred and one questionnaires were distributedto physicians of 17 Regional Hospitals .
The total number of262 usable responses is 87.04 percent of the population.
Thedata were analyzed by the Statistical Package for SocialScience (SPSS) to obtain the percentage, means and standarddeviation.
The finding indicates that the most important purposein information seeking is identifying latest development inmedical science.
The purposes are veried according to theresponsibilities of the physicians.
It is found thatconvenient location is one of the important reasons forlibrary use.
The hospital library, thus, is the mostfrequently used library.
Individual characteristics andresponsibilities affect the physicians ' choice ofinformation providers.
The most frequently used libraries are Faculty ofMedicine libraries the physicians directly use thoselibraries or through the assistance of librarians inhospital libraries.
Library materials mostly used by thephysicians are English and other fereign-language books andjournals.
Problems in information seeking identified by thephysicians are lack of time, receiving information notpromptly and not up-to-date, and not knowing where to getinformation.
The research results can be used as a guideline forthe development of medical information system as presentedin the Chapter 5.
The purpose of this research is to study theprinciples and ideas of the repeated proceeding in theprocedural laws of both Thai and Abroad to see how theyare.
In addition, this study tries to find the processof repeated proceeding of the civil procedure code,article 144 to see how it is accurate and whether it ispossible to correct or not? and how?
The result of the research shows that therepeated proceeding in Thai laws is basically similarto that in English's procedure.
After the decision ismade, no one can bring that issue to the court again.
It is finished because the procedure and decision ofthe court is final according to the principle of "resjudicata".
However, article 144 has some short-comings,particularly the lack of clearness of its content,which need to be reconsidered and improved.
At last, the conclusion of this researchrecommends several ways and means in order to enablethe application of this repeated proceeding mosteffective, speedy and fair.
The purposes of this study were to develop anEnglish teaching model for students at the elementaryeducation level according to Marton's eclectic languageteaching strategy and to compare achievement scores ofEnglish subject and attitudes scores towards Englishlearning of the students taught by the developed modeland the instructional plans in the English Is Fun, Book3 teachers' manual, lesson 1-4.
The research procedurewas : stage I : Model Development, stage II : ModelImplementation.
stage III : Model Revision.
The research results were as follow :
(1) thedeveloped model consisted of 8 important components :rationale, objectives, contents and skills, teachingstrategy, teaching process (knowledge revision,knowledge reception, concept development, skillpractising, conclusion and evaluation, and knowledgetransferring) , teaching methods, teaching steps andactivities, and measurement and evaluation.
Thedeveloped model was composed of 2 parts : thecompulsion and the alternative which the teachers couldpick up the most appropriate teaching method andactivities for their students.
(2) The difference betweenpretest and posttest achievement mean scores of theexperimental group was significantly different fromthat of the controlled group at the .05 level.
Besides,it was found that the attitude towards English learningmean scores of the two groups were not significantlydifferent.
This research aims to analyze variables thatdiscriminate the success of Northern students in takingChiengmai University entrance examination on SpecialProject in the academy year 1989.
The study shows that variables that discriminategroups of students who do and do not pass theuniversity entrance examination consist of students'average grade of Matayomsuksa 6, periods of time fortheir preparations, parents' ocupations, mother's levelof education, books and materials for studying,English- French Program of study, special study, asuitable place at home for working and studying, placeof birth in municipal area, advice and guidance ofteachers, father's nationality and parents' expectationfor their children to future educations.
Thesementioned variables tend to be characteristic of thosestudents who passed the entrance exam. The variablesthat tend to be characteristic of those students whodid not pass the entrance exam are sex, mother workingin government section, knowledge exchanging betweenfamily, school's special teaching by other outsideteachers, advice and guidance by family members to readuseful books, teachers teaching outside schedule,studying alone and having university students astutors.
The purpose of the research was to study theEnglish writing achievement of Prathom Suksa sixstudents with low learning achievement through MasteryLearning Process.
The subjects used in the research were thirtyPrathom Suksa six students with low learningachievement of Choomchonnongsonghong School.
ChangwatKhon-Kean, during the third semester of the 1991academic year.
They were taught English writing skillwith English writing plans which the researcher hadconstructed through Mastery Learning Process.
After theexperiment, the English writing achievement test wereadministered to the subjects.
The data were analyzed bymeans of arithmetic mean, standard deviation andt-test.
The finding was that the English writingachievement of Prathom Suksa six students with lowlearning achievement taught through Mastery LearningProcess was significantly higher than theresearcher-referenced criterion at the level of .05.
The objective of this research is to develop a paintprogram as a prototype which can handle Thai/English characters,using the object oriented programming technique.
In addition tothe paint program, software tools are also developed for anygraphic programs in micro computer platforms.
The tools aregathered into a program library which will ease the furthersoftware development.
The researcher studied the concept of object orientedprogramming in the first place, then made the technical survey onfunctions of the paint program and the methods required for thosefunctions.
After designing and building the program library, thepaint program was developed consequently.
Nevertheless, thepaint program is a prototype which would be one of the best wayfor graphic program development.
More features on graphicsoftware can be added to the program by means of object orientedprogramming technique.
The purpose of this research was to study the opinionsadministrators and teaching staff concerning the present statusand problems of inter national curriculum implemented in highereducation institutions.
A descriptive research method was usedand the procedures consisted of analyzing the internationalcuriculum, interviewing 35 administrators and collectingquestionnaires from 217 teaching staffs.
The results were asfollows:
1. According to the analysis of international curriculumat the present time, there were 19 international curiculums; 7,11,, and 1 for Bachelor's, Master's, and Doctor's Degreerespectively.
2. Study implementing the international curriculum, theopinion of tecahing staffs for "the curriculum and instruction"topic was rated as "High" in the following areas : Curriculumobjectives enabling students to gain skills and knowledges for amodern world, Fields of study suitable to the currentsituation, Curriculum contents possessing internationally,English language used as a medium for instruction and Learningatmosphear encouraging studying in both foreign languages andcross-cultural.
3. Most of teaching staff and administrators gave a pointof view for problems of implementing international curriculum asfollows : Instructors, as well as students, lacked of utilizingforeign language effectively.
There were not sufficient oftextbooks and hadouts and students' background were different.
4. The programs' tendency implemented as internationalcurriculum in the next 10 years (2000's) classified by experts andadministrators were humanities, religion and theology and socialbahavioral science.
The purpose of this research was to study the LowerSecondary English Curriculum in regard to curriculumimplementation and teaching and learning management.
The findings were as follow :
In providing for curriculum implementation, the schooladministrators under The Expansion Of Basic Education OpportunityProject, prepared the English teachers with in service programs,assigned the teachers according to their majors studies,experiences and interests, arranged the meeting to inform parentsand students of the objectives of the curriculum and the approachof teaching and learning management, prepared the classroomaccording to the amount of the students of Prathom Suksa Six whocontinue their studies in Mathayom Suksa level along with the newenrolled students, provided the curriculum materials for theteachers as well as places for making and storing the teachingaids.
In the instructional planning, the English teachersco-operated within their own cluster schools in order to preparethe lesson plans, tests and learning objective evaluationinstruments, 15.1 percent of teachers were well informed aboutthe curriculum and were able to write their own lesson recordingsbut not the other 84.9 percent.
They were elementary teachers whowere transferred to teach in the upper level without enoughorientation of Lower Secondary English Curriculum so theystrictly follow the texts and manuals.
The schools managed to mixold and new enrolled students in the same classroom and organizeda remedial teaching for those who had different background ofknowledge as well as the English clubs.
Although the teacherswere able to manage self study in teaching measurement andevaluation, they still need a lot of supervision, 79.0 percent ofthose got class visit and internal supervision occationally fromthe school administrators but 30.2 percent of them got it fromthe provinical and district supervisors who also pursued thefollow up program of the whole project.
The point-of-origin and point-of-consumption are normally not in the same place, therefore the goods delivery service is necessary for all industries.
If the service is good, it will add up to customer satisfaction.
However, theres still no clearly to evaluate the quality of delivery service in which producer cannot improve the delivery process consistently with the customers need.
This study is built up to introduce the way to evaluate the quality of delivery service, which provide useful information to increase the quality of service.
The study started from choosing the suitable model for evaluating the quality of delivery service.
Then researcher developed the indexes for all parts of service according to the selected models.
Those measures are brought to test for the content validity by expertise on delivery service of public and private division.
Finally, the developed model and indexes brought to test with two different cased studies in organization size, product varieties and volume of goods to be delivered in order to make sure that the model and indexes is well developed for evaluating the quality of delivery service.
The analysis of these two cases shown that the "Service Quality Gap Model" is suitable for using to evaluate the quality of delivery service.
Since this model can assess the completion of 5 parts of service qualities which are study of customers need, define the standard service provide, ability to serve, public relation on service provide and quality of service.
Moreover, we found that 60 indexes can evaluate the quality of delivery goods to customer by interviewing the customers, executive officers and operation staff of service provider.
Its shown that small organization with lower variety and lower delivery volume can provide better service than large organization with higher variety and higher delivery volume with the different result of customer expectation score of 0.654 and 1.135 out of 4 for small and large organization respectively.
As the result, it can be noticed that quality of service depends on 2 factors, which are study of customers need and perceive of customers expectation from word of mouth communications about the service, personal needs, past experience on service received and public relation on service.
The study also shown that there are three problems the customers would like deliverer to solve as follow: First, inconvenience to contact with the service provider, timeconsuming of return policy, and has not delivery goods on time.
While the deliverer should improve its coordination between operation and public relation division, coordination within department, and manage to work consistently with company goals.
The purpose of this study was to compare the Englishlearning achievement of Prathom Suksa six students learned byusing culture video and culture minidrama.
The research results were as follow :
1. The English learning achievement of Prathom Suksa sixstudents learned by using culture video and culture minidramawere not significantly different at the .05 level.
Aftercomparing by detail, it was found that; 1.1 The English learning achievement in performing part of the students in both experimental groups were not significantly different at the .05 level. 1.2 The English learning achievement in knowledge part 1 (relating skill) of the students in both experimental groups were not significantly different at the .05 level. 1.3 The English learning achievement in knowledge part 2 (structure) of the students in experimental group 1 learned by using culture video was significantly higher than those in experimental group 2 learned by using minidrama at the .05 level.
2. The English learning achievement of Prathom Suksa sixstudents learned by using culture video and using cultureminidrama after the experiment were significantly higher than theachievement before the experiment at the .05 level.
The purpose of this research was to studyself-control and positive reinforcement on thecorrectness of english and their generalized to thailanguage exercise of mathayom suksa two students.
Results show that :
1. Students who received self-control trainingon the correctness of english language exercise showedsignificantly higher on the correctness of thailanguage exercise than students who received positivereinforcement on the correctness of english language onthe treatment phase. (p < .05)
2. Students who received self-control trainingon the correctness of english language exercise showedsignificantly higher on the correctness of thailanguage exercise than students who received positivereinforcement on the correctness of english language onthe follow-up phase. (p <.05)
3. There was no significant difference betweenthe students who received self-control training and thestudents who received positive reinforcement for thecorrectness of english language exercise on thetreatment phase. (p < .05)
4. Students who received self-control trainingshowed significantly higher on the correctness ofenglish language exercise than students who receivedpositive reinforcement on the follow-up phase. (p <.05)
The purpose of this research was to study theeffects of attributional persuasion on the correctnessof lesson practices and learning achievement in Englishlanguage subject of mathayom suksa two students.
Results were that :
1. Students in the experimental group gotsignificantly higher scores on English lesson practiceson the treatment phase than students in the controlgroup. (p .05)
2. Students in the experimental group gotsignificantly higher scores on English test on the endof the treatment phase than students in the controlgroup. (p .05)
3. Students in the experimental group gotsignificantly higher scores on English lesson practiceson the treatment phase than on the baseline phase. (p.05)
The objectives of this research were to study the general status of the variables that affected the students achievement on test scores of educational quality courses, to compare the achievements classified by different independent variables, and to formulate regression equation or predicting equation for students achievement on test scores of educational quality courses.
The population used in this study consisted of 107 post degree students from every field and major of the academic year 1998.
The data were analyzed by using SPSS for Windows Version 9.0 to obtain statistical values by means of Cronbachs Alpha Coefficient, t-test, F-test and Multiple Regression Analysis.
The research results were as follows:
1.The general status that affected the students achievement on test scores of educational quality course in English were their fathers occupation and the highest education of their parents.
2.The independent variables or predicting variables that affected the students achievement on test scores of educational quality course in Thai were five variables chosen according to priority of significance as follows:
grade point average in Thai (X(,3)), training before testing (X(,2)), sex (X(,1)), and students attitude toward Thai (X,4) were significant at the 0.01 level while the average of parents income (X(,8)) was significant at 0.05.
The regression equation or predicting equation of raw scores for the students achievement on test scores of educational quality course in Thai was: Y=14.349 + 5.223X(,3) + 6.132X(,2) + 4.928X(,1) + 2.872X(,14) + 1.287X(,8) The regression equation or predicting equation of standard scores for the students achievement on test scores of educational quality course in Thai was: Y= .363X(,3) + .428X(,2) + .321X(,1) + .211X(,14) + .174X(,8)
3.The independent variable or predicting variable that affected the students achievement on test scores of educational quality course in English was the grade point average in English (X(,3)) which was significant at the 0.01 level.
The regression equation or predicting equation of raw scores for the students achievement on test scores of educational quality course in English was: Y=18.771 + 11.076X(,3) The regression equation or predicting equation for standard scores of the students achievement on test scores of educational quality course in English was: Y= .249X(,3)
4.The independent variables or predicting variables that affected the students achievement on test scores of educational quality course in Computer were two variables chosen according to priority of significance as follows: training before testing (X(,2)) was significant at the 0.01 level while grade point average of the second semester of academic year 1998(X(,5)) was significant at 0.05.
The regression equation or predicting equation of raw scores for the students achievement on test scores of educational quality course in Computer was: Y=-1.556 + 12.183X(,2) + 11.603X(,5) The regression equation or predicting equation of standard scores for the students achievement on test scores of educational quality course in Computer was: Y= .454X(,2) + .300X(,5)
The purposes of this research were to analyze and to describe the major factors that affected e- Learning of students at public universities in Bangkok metropolitan area.
The samples chosen for this study were 1,014 or 97.5% out of 1,040 students at the Faculty of Education of public universities in Bangkok metropolitan area.
The instrument used for data collection was 7 rating scales.
The reliability of the instrument calculated by Cronbach Alpha Coefficient was 0.92 The data was analyzed by using the means ((-,x)), Standard Deviation (S.D.) and Analysis of Factors by Principal Component Analysis Technique: PCA, orthogonal rotation axis by Varimax Method.
The results of the study were as follows :
1. There were 12 major factors that affected e- Learning of students at public universities in Bangkok metropolitan area as follows: 1) virtual lesson, 2) promptness of network system as well as the students readiness, 3) useful learning, 4) feeling of persons and interesting lessons, 5) supporting thought system and equity of education, 6) supporting from the institutes, 7) personal status, 8) anyplace, anytime for education, 9) social value and the acceptance of innovation, 10) experienced and facilitated by others concerned, 11) supporting self-learning and 12) finding out knowledge and enhancing English language.
These factors could be explained 63.551% of the total variance.
2. A study of Correlation Coefficient between 14 and 52 factors was 0.390 - 0.779 and Correlation Coefficient between 12 factors with that affected e-Learning was 0.438-0.863 which was in high level.
Correlation Coefficient within the internal factors of 12 was 0.005 - 0.070, which was in low level.
3. The regression or predicting equation that affected e- Learning of students at public universities in Bangkok metropolitan Area was: Y = Z + 0.673(Virtual) + 0.843(Network) + 0.863(Useful) + 0.657(lnteresting) + 0.701(Thought) + 0.623 (Supporting) + 0.598(Status) + 0.706(Any place/time) + 0.737(Value) + 0.820(Experience) + 0.650(Learning) + 0.438(Knowledge) The predicting equation has the power of prediction 82.857% and the error of predicting was 7.143.
The purpose of this research was to study the status and needs of the computer instruction in private primary schools in provinces, excluding Bangkok.
This research used a questionnaire as the tool to collect data with samples of 232 computer department heads and computer teachers in 116 private primary schools.
The data was analyzed by using frequency, percentage, mean, and standard deviation.
The research results indicated as follow:
Most schools have only one computer lab for teaching.
They have about 21 or 30 computers, which can offer 2 students to share one computer and those computers and printers are Stand Alone.
Different schools provide their own Computer Assisted Instruction (CAI) sets.
Most of the teachers do not have a degree in computer science.
Higher Primary levels P.5, P.6, are those who have the most computer subjects.
They are using Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel and Paintbrush programs for teaching, running under Windows 95 and Windows 98.
They are also using the computer lessons for skill practics, such as CAI games, CAI typing and CAI drawing.
Moreover, they are using CAI to teach English, Mathematics, and Thai subjects.
Teachers have to create the curricula and textbooks by themselves.
School budget is spent on computers that we can use for the period of teaching for 3 or 4 years.
Most schools need more computer labs.
Those schools, which already have computers still need more memory (RAM), hard disk, and the connections between computers and printers into networks.
New and modern curricula are also needs, for which require experienced-teachers who have abilities to transfer and motivate.
Moreover, texts and Internet in the library, CAI for all subjects are required.
Each school also has to set the standard for computer study.
Students can practice using computer programs.
The school has to increase the budget for purchasing more tools and training programs for computer teachers.
Setting up an Internet agent to plan for future computer education is also necessary.
The purpose of this research was to study the trends of Industrial Education Bachelors Degree Curriculum, Five-Year Program in Electrical Communication, by using Delphi technique.
The sample were 20 experts.
The instruments used in this research were semi-structured interview forms and questionnaires.
The data were analyzed by median, mode and interquartile range.
The results were as follows:
Objectives of the Five-Year Program emphasized on knowledge and ability of the student to construct and develop vocational curriculum.
Moreover, the students can apply technology to teaching and administrative management, and can work as an entrepreneur.
Educational period was 4-10 years.
The student qualified to study in this program must hold high school certificate or its equivalent.
Total credits of curriculum were 162-180 consisting of 30-35 credits in general education, 126-136 credits in specific subjects and 6-9 credits in elective courses.
Curriculum structure composed of subject groups in general education emphasized on Thai, English, natural and environmental conservation, and Thai culture conservation.
The specific subject group consisted of both educational and engineering professional subjects.
Subjects in educational subgroup were teaching professional including vocational psychology, adolescent psychology, theory of learning and instruction, and teaching practice seminar.
Engineering professional subjects were similar to those of four-year program plus engineering professional subjects, such as microwave engineering, optical communication network, engineering materials and mechanical dynamics.
Evaluations of learning and skill and knowledge development of student were mainly measured by several techniques focusing on student achievement in real practical work indicated by portfolio.
Instructors qualification of the curriculum must be masters degree holders in either industrial education or engineering and related areas of the subjects in the curriculum.
~uBackground~u Teaching and learning English in-Thai schools have always been ineffective.
Thera are many problem involved in teaching English in Thailand, especially, concerning teachers.
Many teachers have problems with pronunciation, many of them are not English major, and have received no in-service training as teachers of English according to B.E. 2521 Primary School Curriculum.
Many teachers use very few instructional aids.
All these problems contribute to students low achievement in learning English.
Unless some corrective measure are provided improvement in students achievements is improbable.
Sakolnakhorn Province has 621 schools under the office of Primary Education.
Of these 621 schools 71.33 percent or 443 schools teach English, and the trend is increasing.
Most of these schools are faced with the problem of the students low achievement in learning English.
The researcher is interested in finding information concerning teachers needs as a way to suggest to the authorities involved the measures most likely to improve the standard of English teaching in the province.
~uObjectives~u
1.To study the requirements for improving the teaching standards of English teachers in four areas teaching skill, teaching and learning activities, utilization of instructional aids, measurement and evaluation.
2.To compare the needs for improved teaching standard among English teachers, in the 4 areas mentioned above considering variable factors as follows :
2.1 English and non-English major
2.2 English teaching experience
2.3 School size.
~uHypothesis~u
1. Teachers with English and non-English major will differ in their need for teaching competency improvement.
2. Teachers with different English teaching experience will differ in their need for teaching competency improvement.
3. Teachers from different school sizes will differ in their need for teaching competency improvement.
4. There is interaction between academic major, English teaching experience and school size related to the need for teaching competency improvement of English teachers.
~uMethodology~u The sampling method for this research was stratified random sampling selecting 70 percents from each category of school, there were 309 teachers but correctly returned questionnaire numbered 255 or 82.52 percent.
Three-way ANOVA computer program SPSS/PC(+) was used for data analysis.
~uSummary of the Results~u The results of the findings were :
1. Teachers need for English competency improvement was at a high level, respectively as followed :
English teaching skill, teaching and learning activities, measurement and evaluation and utilization of instructional aids.
2. English major teachers and non-English major teachers both with training and no training in English teaching had no statistically significant difference in the need for teaching competency improvement.
3. There was no significant difference between teachers who had less than 4 years experience arid those with more.
4. The need for improvement among teachers from large schools was significantly greater than among teachers from medium sized and small schools at the .05 level.
5. The interaction between academic major, teaching experience and size of school had no statistically significant difference ; but when consider each need there was significant difference at the .05 level in teaching and learning activities.
The purposes of this research were to investigate writing ability ofstudents learning through drawing-based lessons and to study students'opinions concerning the drawing-based lessons.
The samples studied,purposively selected, included 42 Prathom Suksa 5/2 students of AnubaanChiangmai School, Chiang Mai Province in the 2('nd) semester of 2002 academicyear.
The instruments used were 10 lesson plans on writing skills throughdrawing-based lessons, which each plan including three twenty-minute periods,the English writing ability test, and the students' questionnairesconcerning the drawing-based lessons.
The collected data were statisticallyanalyzed by computing arithmetic means, standard deviations, and t-test.
The major findings were as follows:
1. After the students.
were taught through the drawing-based lessons,their English writing abilities were higher than those of the preteststatistically at the .01 level of significance.
2. After the students were taught through the drawing-based lessons,their opinions concerning the drawing-based lessons displayed at the moreand the most satisfactory level in almost all aspects.
This study intends to investigate whether jokes can help students understand multiple-meaning English vocabulary by comparing results of identical pre- and post-tests of each student.
The jokes were selected from several sources such as jokebooks, the Internet, and newspapers.
Each joke carries at least one multiple-meaning word.
To make the study more interesting and to promote independent learning, the jokes were arranged into web-based format with hyperlinks provided to help the students with explanations and example sentences of each multiple-meaning word in context.
The experiment was conducted with four subjects from the Faculty of Engineering, King Mongkuts University of Technology Thonburi.
The subjects were requested to attend the experiment once a week for totally six consecutive times.
In the first week, each student was assigned to do the pre-test.
Then in the other four weeks the students were requested to read jokes, one unit per week.
In each joke, there was a hyperlink for the multiple-meaning word, students were allowed to look at it on their will in order to help them understand the meaning.
In the last week, all subjects were asked to do the post-test and had a semi-structured interview with the researcher.
The results of the pre- and post-tests of individual student were, then, compared with each other in order to see the improvement of their awareness of multiple-meaningness of vocabulary.
After the careful analysis of the findings, every subject makes satisfactory improvement in the post-test.
Furthermore, the semi-structured interview reflects positive feedback from the subjects in using jokes for vocabulary teaching as well as the web-based format which offers convenience and promotes autonomous learning.
In addition, there are also some considerable suggestions from the subjects in using jokes for teaching vocabulary.
The purposes of this research were to study job satisfaction of the staff of Thai Farmers Bank in the Eastern Region,-and to compare it by four variables namely; work experiences, sexes, salaries and job positions.
The research instrument used in this study was a forty-four-items rating scale questionnaire made by the researcher and covered 14 aspects of job satisfaction of the staff of Thai Farmers Bank in the Eastern Region.
The population was the 551 staff, and the data were analyzed by using arithmetic mean and standard deviation.
The result showed that the overall job satisfaction of the staff of Thai Farmers Bank in the Eastern Region was at a middle level.
When considering aspect by aspect, it was found that job satisfaction in eight aspects was at a high level.
Ranking in order of their mean scores, these were; sufficiency in communications, working condition, work standards, efficiency in management, confidence in management, friendship and cooperation among co-workers, technical competence of supervisors and social status and recognition.
Meanwhile, job satisfaction in other six aspects was at a middle level, and ranking in order of their mean scores, they are as follows; identification of members with the organization, job security and work relations, relationship between superiors and subordinates, opportunity for advancement, compensation and benefits, and salaries or wages.
When comparing job satisfaction of the staff by four variables, it was found that work experiences, sexes and job positions (management level and support level) did not affect the level of satisfaction.
These staff were all satisfied at the middle level.
Only salaries affected job satisfaction of staff.
The research showed that staff whose salaries were more than 5,000 Baht/month expressed satisfaction at a high level, while those whose salaries were 5,000 Baht/month or lower were satisfied at a middle level.
From this study it is recommended that there should be studies on the same topics in other Regions of the country and if similar result: are found, for an example, compensation, benefits and salaries were rated last on the list of the 14 aspects of job satisfaction, than the Head Office should consider their adjustment.
As for branch managers of Thai Farmers Bank in the Eastern Region, it is recommended that relationship between superiors and subordinates should be strengthened e. g. through recreational activities.
This should bring about an increase in morale and job satisfaction.
This classroom-based research study was conducted to investigate the effects of the KMUTT students grammar self-studying in KMUTT SALC on their self-correction and on their written production.
The subjects were 7 first-year students at KMUTT who enrolled in LNG 101:
Fundamental English I.
The instruments used were students written tasks, students record sheets and semi-structured interview.
The findings of this study revealed that the students had developed in two aspects.
Firstly, five out of seven students (71.43%) could self-correct assigned grammar points.
The other aspect concerned the quality of their writing, that is, they were able to write more grammatically acceptable sentence structures.
Moreover, the students were confident in writing more complicated and longer sentences.
The increased quality of writing tasks was likely due to the suitability of learning processes, materials used, and the exercise types.
They provided adequacy and quality of practice.
Nevertheless, the degree of their success in self-studying and self-correction depended on teachers support in terms of counseling and learner training.
Through this support, the students would be able to conduct self-study effectively.
This study aims to investigate inappropriate words that Thai students frequently use in writing by comparing students written corpora with comparable English native speakers corpora.
To make the initial results more worthwhile, this study also examines the students use of writing strategies, that may influence the selection of words, and the students reasons for using the inappropriate words.
The students involved in this study were the first-year engineering students at King Mongkuts University of Technology Thonburi.
For the identification of inappropriate words, all of the students in the class, thirty-eight of them, participated.
They were assigned to write essays on three written topics and to send their works to the researcher via E-mail.
Then their works were compiled as ~iStudents Corpus~i 1, 2, and 3, respectively, depending on the written topics, in order to be compared with the English ~iNative Speakers Corpus~i 1, 2, and 3, of the same topics, collected from the internet.
After the comparison of each written topic was done, ten students from each topic were selected to be subjects of an interview for gathering the use of writing strategies and reasons for using those words.
From the analysis, there are twenty-nine inappropriate words found.
In addition, the interview signifies the fruitful information of the use of writing strategies and reasons for using those inappropriate words which will be useful to classroom teaching afterward.
The purpose of this classroom-based research study is to investigate factors affecting learners who have high productive participation but low language achievement and vice versa.
The students who took part in this study were 40 M.4/4 students from Islamic College of Thailand, Bangkok.
There are 4 subjects selected from the results of the analysis of observation checksheet and students midterm examination.
The first two students had high participation but low achievement and the other two had high achievement but low participation.
A semi-structured interview was used to find the factors affecting the mismatches between learners productive participation and their language achievement.
The findings of this research study reveal that the main factor affecting such mismatches was learners different approaches in developing second language acquisition.
The reason why some learners had high oral participation but low scores was that they had experience and confidence in using English for real communication but they lacked strategies to cope with the language learnt in the classroom and assessed in the test.
On the other hand, the reason why some learners had high scores but low oral participation was that they had strategies to assist them in learning language in class and in the test but they lacked experience and confidence to use language for communication in real situations.
Implications for teaching and for assessment are also suggested.
In teaching, learning strategies should be introduced to the learners to learn language effectively and successfully. In testing, a balanced proportion of skills should be considered in making tests since language learning is composed of four skills.
Moreover, continuous assessment is another option for the teacher to take into consideration.
Background English is considered a universal language which is widely used, as a foreign language that we should learn.
English-is an elective subject in the Special Experience Subject Group for Prathomsuksa-five and six students in the Primary Education Curriculum of B.E. 2521.
The English Curriculum puts an emphasis on the application in expecting that the students can apply English in their daily life.
In the process of teaching and learning English, the teacher is the most important person because he or she is the one who directly uses the curriculum.
As far as it has been done, there is still a great need for qualified English teachers, especially at the primary level.
Consequently, the researcher would like to study the teaching behavior of English teachers as percieved by students, and to evaluate their comprehension in the teaching and learning English.
Sakolnakorn is one of the provinces in which English teaching is provided in many schools.
The researcher devises that it is necessary to study English teachers capability to see how proper their capability is, or if there is anything to be corrected and improved.
As a result, it will help increase the effectiveness of the teaching and learning English.
Purposes of Study
1. To study the teaching behavior of the English teachers as perceived by Prathomsuksa-six students of primary schools under the Office of Sakolnakorn Provincial Primary Education in 3 areas :
teaching-learning activities, using the equipment and instructional media, measurement and evaluation as well.
2. To study the comprehension of Prathomsuksa-six English teachers of primary schools under the Office of Sakolnakorn Provincial Primary Education in 4 areas :
the curriculum, teaching-learning activities, using the equipment and instructional media, measurement and evaluation as well.
3. To compare the teaching behavior of the English teachers as perceived by Prathomsuksa-six students in 3 areas, as classified by their major subjects, teaching experience, and school sizes.
4. To compare the comprehension of Prathomsuksa-six English teachers in 4 areas, as classified by their major subjects, teaching-learning activities, and school sizes.
Hypotheses
1. Students of different school sizes have different perception in the teaching behavior of their English teachers in 3 areas.
2. Students studying English with English-major or English-minor teachers and those studying with non-English-major or non-Englishminor teachers have different perception in the teaching behavior of their English teachers in 3 areas.
3. Students studying with teachers of different teaching experience have different perception in the teaching behavior of their English teachers in 3 areas.
4. Students studying with teachers of different major subjects and different teaching experience have interaction in perceiving the teaching behavior of the English teachers in 3 areas.
5. Teachers of different school sizes have different comprehension in the teaching and learning English in 4 areas.
6. English-major or English-minor teachers, and non-English-major or non-English-minor teachers have different comprehension in the teaching and learning English in 4 areas.
7. Teachers of different teaching experience have different comprehension in the teaching and learning English in 4 areas.
8. Teachers of different major subjects and of different teaching experience have interaction in perceiving the comprehension in the teaching and learning English in 4 areas.
Methodology The sample of this study was taken from the English teachers and Prathomsuksa-six students of the schools which the teachers were the sample.
The sample, derived from multi-stage random sampling, was composed of 53 English teachers and 527 students of primary schools under the Office of Sakolnakorn Provincial Primary Education.
The instruments used for collecting the data were :
A set of 59-item, three-rank rating-scale questionnaire on the teaching behavior of the English teachers as perceived by Prathomsuksa-six students in 3 areas:
teaching-learning activities, using the equipment and instructional media, and measurement and evaluation.
Thirty-five items of the comprehension test in English of Prathomsuksa-six English teachers in 5 areas :
the curriculum, teaching-learning activities, using the equipment and instructional media, and measurement and evaluation.
The questionnaire were constructed by the researcher and were checked and approved by seven experts.
Then they were tried out with 30 English teachers and 30 Prathomsuksa-six students who were not included in the sample.
The reliability of the questionnaire calculated by means of Cronbach-Alpha method, was 0.77 ; and the reliability of the test, calculated by means of Kuder-Richardson 21, was 0.84.
The data were analyzed by F-test for ONE-WAY ANOVA and for TWO-WAY ANOVA.
Conclusion The findings of the study were as follows :
1. The teaching behavior performed by the teachers as perceived by the students in general was rated at a medium level, ranging from high to low as following measurement and evaluation, using the equipment and instructional media, and teaching-learning activities.
2. The teaching behavior of the teachers as perceived by the students of schools of different sizes was statistically significant different at the level of .05 in the areas of teaching-learning activities.
There was no statistically significant difference in the area of using the equipment and instructional media.
3. The teachers major subjects and teaching experience had statistical significant interaction on the teaching behavior in the areas of teaching-learning activities, and measurement and evaluation at the level of .05.
There was no statistically significant interaction on teaching behavior in the area of using the equipment and instructional media.
4. The comprehension in the teaching and learning English in general was at low level, ranging from high to low as following, using the equipment and instructional media, teaching-learning activities, measurement and evaluation, and the curriculum.
5. There were no statistically significant differences in the comprehension in the teaching and learning English of schools of different sizes in the areas of the curriculum, teaching-learning activities, using the equipment and instructional media, and measurement and evaluation.
6. The teachers major subjects and teaching experience had statistical nonsignificant interaction on the comprehension of the teaching and learning English in the 4 areas :
the curriculum, teaching-learning activities, using the equipment and instructional media, and measurement and evaluation.
Background: In the age of modern communication, wide exchange of knowledges and technologies, "English" has completely become the universal language.
Thailand, as a developing country, English has been taught in schools for many years in order for Thais to be able to learn more knowledges and technologies from other countries.
However, there are many problems in English teaching in both elementary and secondary schools.
English teaching in elementary schools is concerned with laying solid foundation for further study and developing healthy attitude toward the subject as well.
Success or failure of children depends mostly upon teaching-behaviors of the teachers--what and how the teachers do in the classroom.
The researcher believes that to improve English - teaching in elementary schools we ought to study clearly the teaching-behaviors of the teachers.
According to the findings of some previous studies, the total acadamic achievements, including English, of pupils in schools under the municipalities were found higher than those of pupils in schools under the Office of National Primary Education Commission.
However, a study on learning achievement of English of pupils in Amphur Muang Nakhonphanom showed contradictory results.
The researcher was thus interested in finding out the English - teaching behaviors of teachers in schools both unde the office of Amnhur Muang Nakhonphanom Primary education and under the Muang Nakhonphanom Municipality.
The findings of the study should be helpful to the improvement of the teaching of the English language.
~uPurposes of the study~u :
1. To study all 5 phases of English - teaching behaviors of the teachers both under the office of Amphur Muang Nakhonphanom Primary Education and under the Muang Nakhonphanom Municipality.
The English - teaching behaviors are composed of:
1.1 Teaching preparation
1.2 Teaching and learning activities
1.3 Using of teaching aids
1.4 Classroom control and classroom atmosphere
1.5 Measuring and evaluating activities
2. To compare the English - teaching behaviors between the two groups of teachers
~uHypothesis of the study~u:
1. Teachers under the different Offices will differ in teaching preparation.
2. Teachers under the different Offices will differ in teaching and learning activities.
3. Teachers under the different Offices will differ in using of teaching aids.
4. Teachers under the different Offices will differ in classroom control and classroom atmostohere.
5. Teachers under the different Offices will differ in measuring and evaluating activities.
~uProcedures~u:
The population applied in the research consisted of twenty - three Prathomsuksa five English teachers of the acadamic vear 1988 from schools under the office of the Amphur Muang Nakhonphanom Primary Education and seven others from the Muang Nakhonphanom Municipality.
The behavior check - list observing form was the instrument of the research.
From three pretests, its reliabilities were found out of being .83, .85, .85 respectively.
The percentage was the statistical device used for the data analysis.
~uConclusion~u:
The findinas of the study revealed that :
1. Considering all 5 phases combined, English - teaching behaviors of teachers in schools under the Office of Amphur Muang Nakhonphanom Primary Education were at the middle level.
When all 5 phases were studied separately; the finding showed that measuring and evaluating activities was at the highest level, while teaching preparation, teaching and learning activities and using of teaching aids were at the low level.
2. Considering all 5 phases together English - teaching behaviors of teachers under the Muang Nakhonphanom Municipality were at the middle level.
When all 5 phases of English - teaching behaviors were studied separately, the finding showed that the measuring and evaluating activities were at the highest level, whereas the using of teaching aids was at the low level.
3. In comparing the English - teaching behaviors of the two groups of teachers, with all phases combined, the findings showed that both were at the middle level.
But, when each phase of English-teaching behaviors was considered the results of the studv showed that teachers under the Office of Amphur Muang Nakhonphanom Primary Education were at the lower level, with the exception of the using of teaching aids and the measuring and evaluating activities where there were no difference.
The purposes of this study were to determine problems and needs of teachers in measuring and evaluating learning objectives prescribed in student report cards (P.02) concerning Extra Learning Experience (English) in Prathom 5 and 6 of primary schools under the Office of Rayong Provincial Primary Education, and to compare the problems and needs of teachers by considering three variables: English qualification and English inservice education, English teaching experiences, and teaching responsibilities.
The population of 290 Prathom 5 and 6 teachers were from schools under the Office of Rayong Provincial Primary Education.
A 147-item, rating-scale questionnaire describing problems and needs in measuring and evaluating learning objectives in three areas:
the measuring instruments, the knowledge and understanding, and the performance, was employed distributed for data collecting.
The arithmetic mean, the standard deviation, and the level of problems and needs were used for analysis of the data.
The findings were as follows:
1. According to the problems of teachers in measuring and evaluating learning objectives, the teachers indicated them in three areas at a moderate level.
The importance of each area was presented in the following high-to-low order:
the performance, the measuring instruments and the knowledge and understanding.
2. The comparison of the problems of teachers in measuring and evaluating learning objectives was considered by the three variables:
English qualification and English inservice education, English teaching experiences, and teaching responsibilities.
2.1 There were no differences in the three areas of problems in measuring and evaluating learning objectives as perceived by teachers English qualification and English inservice education.
2.2 When considering the teachers English teaching experiences, there were no differences in the three areas of the problems.
2.3 There were no differences in the three areas of the problems as perceived by teachers teaching responsibilities.
3. Teachers stated the needs in measuring and evaluating learning objectives in all three areas at a high level.
The importance of the needs was rated at the following order:
the measuring instruments, the performance, and the knowledge and understanding.
4. The comparison of the needs in measuring and evaluating learning objectives was considered by the three variables.
4.1 Teachers with different English qualification and English inservice education stated no difference on the three areas of the needs.
4.2 There were no differences in the needs as perceived by teachers English Teaching experiences.
4.3 When considering the teachers teaching responsibilities, there were also no differences in the needs of these three areas.
BACKGROUND : With advancement of technologies, faster means of communication, contact between people all over the world can be made more than ever.
Thailand is one of the countries is most attractive to foreign tourists.
To communicate with visitors from aboard, it is necessary for Thai people to know foreign languages, especially, English.
Since Pattaya City is the most well-known seaside, resort in Thailand, it attracts almost all visitors that visit Thailand.
People in some occupations have to speak English.
To carry on an effective way of life, children in Pattaya City need to learn more English vocabularies.
The researcher is very interested in English vocabularies used by people of various occupations in Pattaya City as compared to English vocabularies in English Is Fun Books I-IV.
The findings of this research will be a source of useful information for curriculum development, especially to develop curriculum to serve the needs of some particular areas like Pattaya City and other seaside resorts.
~uPurposes of the Study~u :
1. To survey the usage of English vocabularies of people from various occupations in Pattaya.
2. To compare these vocabularies with those in English Is Fun Books I-IV.
~uMethodology~u :
The sample of this study was composed of 100 people of various occupations in Pattaya City.
The instrument used in the study was a form of structured interview constructed by the researcher.
The data were analyzed by means of percentage.
~uConclusion~u :
The findings of the study showed that vocabularies concerning with numeral and "you" were most frequently used.
The words "thanks", "what" and "I" were respectively of high frequency in use.
The vocabularies about foods, animals, and merchandises were very infrequently used.
The people interviewed in the study used a total of 561 English words; 302 of these were found in English Is Fun Books I-IV, while 259 words were not.
~uBackground~u Spelling is relevant to the four skills : listening, speaking, reading and writing.
Of course, wrong spelling will affect these four skills.
At present, in the teaching and learning English, the problem of misspelling is still existing.
Thus, in learning how to spell a word in English, the students are required to spell it correctly by being able to know which consonants or vowels are to be made up into a certain word of vocabulary.
In teaching spelling, the teachers must give the students a lot of practice and drills.
However, if the teachers use the same and monotonous technique, the students will get bored.
Therefore, the teachers should use many different methods in teaching spelling in order to increase the students academic achievement in spelling.
Especially, by introducing games into the teaching and learning, it will arouse the interest of the students.
Up till now, as far as it been done in teaching spelling, the teachers let the students learn mainly by memorizing ; and there are still a lot of problems in spelling.
Consequently, the researcher is interested in studying about teaching spelling by the method of using games and by the conventional method in order to compare the achievement and the retention of the students taught by these two methods.
The result of the study will be as guidelines to help increase the effectiveness of the teaching and learning in the area of spelling English vocabulary.
~uPurposes of the Study~u
1. To compare the achievement in spelling English words of Prathomsuksa-six students, taught by the method of using games and by the conventional method.
2. To compare the retention in spelling English words of Prathomsuksa-six students, taught by the method of using games and by the conventional method.
~uHypotheses~u
1. The academic achievement in spelling English words of Prathomsuksa-six students taught by the method of using games is higher than that of the students taught by the conventional method.
2. The retention of spelling English words of Prathomsuksa-six students taught by the method of using games is higher than that of the students taught by the conventional method.
~uMethodology~u The sample of the study was composed of 60 Prathomsuksa-six students, studying in the third term of the academic year 1.989, of Banhuayharn School, Ronpiboon District, Nakornsrithammarat Province.
The students were divided into the experiment group and the control group, in which there were 30 students in one class for each group.
The instruments used in the experiment were lesson plans in teaching spelling by the method of using games and by the conventional method, including a set of spelling test which had the reliability of 0.84.
The data were analyzed by means of t-test.
~uConclusion~u The findings of the study were as follow :
1. The students taught by the method of using games gained significantly higher achievement than those taught by the conventional method did at the level of .01.
2. The students taught by the method of using games had significantly higher retention than those taught by the conventional method did at the level of .05.
Background : The aims of secondary school management were : to enable the learners to be knowledgeable in academic and vocation, so that they can choose professions useful for themselves and the society.
Secondary schools which were managed by the government in the provincial level, umpher, and tambol were composed of extra-large size, large size, middle size and small size and small secondary schools were inferior than all of the schools mentioned above in all aspects.
Most of the small secondary schools in Educational Region 5 were situated in the country which was difficult to have access to.
Small secondary schools always lacked teachers and most of the teachers educational background was lower than the bachelor degree.
For these reasons, the reasearcher was interested in studying the existing situations and the needs of personnel development activities in small secondary schools under the Department of General Education in Educational Region 5 so that the result of the study could be used to improve the personnel development of the teachers.
Objectives of the Research:
1. To study the existing situations of personnel development activities as perceived by teachers of small secondary schools under the Department of General Education in Educational Region 5
2. To study the needs for personnel development activities as perceived by teachers of small secondary schools under the Department of General Education in Educational Region
5. Teacher groups were categorized according to teaching subjects as followed
: mathematics sciences, Thai, social study, English, physical education and arts.
Needs for personnel development activities could be grouped into 6 areas as followed:
orientation, training, seminar and workshop, distribution of educational information, study tours, moral development and continuing education.
Methodology: The sample used in this study consisted of 362 teachers from small secondary schools under the Department of General Education, Educational Region 5 in 1989.
The stratified sampling teachnique was implemented.
Instrument : The instrument implemented to collect the data was a 35-item rating scale questionnaire designed by the researcher.
Statistical Devices:
Mean and standard deviation were used in this study.
Summary of the Findings: The findings of the study were :
the personnel development activities of small secondary schools under the Department of General Education in Educational Region 5 in the six areas combined were at a medium level.
However, when each division was closely examined, personnel development activities at low level were :
study tours and continuing education.
In the other four areas; ditribution of education information, training/seminar and workshop, orientation and moral development, they were rated of beling at a medium level.
The level of needs for personnel development activities of small secondary schools under the Department of General Education, Educational Region was found of being high in all the areas of personnel development activities and in all groups of teachers.
The finding of the study prevails the need for higher level of support from the administrators of small secondary schools in teachers personnel development activities especially in the two areas; study tours and continuing education and the activities that ought to be provided according to need of each teaching subject were especially in the two areas; training/seminar and workshop and distribution of educational information
The purpose of this study was to investigate therelationship between self-esteem and English speakingability of physical education students at the highercertificate of education level.
The samples were 320first year physical education majored students in 1990academic year, 160 males and 160 females, selected from8 physical education colleges by the multiple-stagerandom sampling.
They were asked to complete theself-esteem inventory and the English speaking abilitytest.
The data were analyzed by means of Pearsonproduct-moment correlation coefficient by using thestatistical package for the social sciences-SPPSxprogram.
The findings were as follows:
1. There was no relationship between self-esteemand English speaking ability of physical educationstudents at the higher certificate of education levelat .05 level of significance.
2. There was no relationship between self-esteemand English speaking ability of male students at .05level of significance.
3. There was no relationship between self-esteemand English speaking ability of female students at .05level of significance.
An interfacing card for nuclear measuring systemhas been developed for data communications between theNIM system and a 16-bit IBM personal computer, XT/AT orcompatible, to improve performance of the measuringsystem.
It can be applied for both data analyzing andnucleonic controlling systems.
The software package foroperating the card is programmed with the BASIC andassembly languages.
This package is devided into twomajor parts, i.e., control and utility programs, whichare designed to display on a monochrome monitor withHercules card and 12772-byte program size.
The control program consists of four menus.
Theyare the scaler service routine, the ratemeter serviceroutine, the single channel analyzer service routineand the nucleonic control service routine.
Theuniversal interfacing card can transfer the BCDcounting data from a scaler with six-digit capacity andrecieve a signal level from 8 modules of ratemeter withmultiplexing system.
Each channel can accept the signalof 0 to 100 mV with an error of less than (+,-)3.6percent full scale.
The card can generate a 0-to 10-Vlow level discriminator scanning signal with resolutionof 10 Mv and linearity of 0.998.
Besides, it cancontrol eight sets of external devices through thesignal obtained by compairing the result from theratemeter with that from the reference point.
The main purpose of this thesis is to study the dramatictechniques that King Rama VI employed to dramatize the legend ofSavitri into a Thai operatic play.
Firstly, the discussion focuses on the source of Savitri'sstory.
Secondly, the study discusses the translation of Savitriinto Thai versions and compares three versions of Savitri in formand content.
The three versions are English prose version, Thaiprose version and Thai operatic play version.
Finally, the studyfocuses on the dramatization and the analysis of the play topoint out its literary values.
It can be concluded that the literary values of Savitri liein the main theme of ideal love and the main characters; Savitriand Satyavan, of excellent virtues.
When King Rama VI adaptedthe story of Savitri into an operatic play, the song and use theuse of solely singing in dialogues make the play interesting asthe singificance of this play is reflected through thecharacters'dialogues.
The king managed to combine and adaptedthe influences of western dramas, Sanskrit dramas and Thai dramasin the creation of his own work.
Thus, this operatic play is anevidence of his genius in dramatic arts.
The research aims at analysing the mass media's sources ofpetroleum information to understand their role as informants.
The organization structure, communications management anddocument distribution of sources are studied based on theories ofmass communications, organization, gatekeeping, agenda setting,information management, source reliability and news value leadingup to the arguments.
The research findings are as follow.
Information sources are interrelated with internal andoutside environment factors.
Communications management istherefore targeted at government and mass media coordination,which are the main sectors associated with the petroleumbusiness.
Another function is information distribution to thepublic, a standard business practice, by specific media ofsources and through mass media.
Although sources are sometimeunidentified, their relationship with the mass media isreflected.
In conclusion, sources have clear objectives in presentinginformation and utilizing media.
For instance, to create theimage of technology leader or social contributor, or even theservival of the organization, which is the underlying target ofgeneral mass communication objectives.
The latter requiresplanning and persentation that is systematic and properly relatesto business strategies.
As the result of rapidly growth in the industries, the complexity of production process is also greater than before.
The conventional control system can no longer provide acceptable results due to its capability limitation in controlling the multi-process and the real time control.
SCADA system is introduced to these problems.
However, the development in SCADA only tends to develop the part of data acquisition while controller is usually the conventional one such as ON/OFF.
This research, therefore, focuses on the set up of a SCADA prototype, which has more alternative controllers.
Information communication of the developed system is based on the RS-485 standard and the data are transmitted in the half-duplex communication with 2-wire transmission line in the maximum 4000 feet long.
Maximum 32 units can be, connected to this SCADA system.
The prototype developed in this research consists of 2 RTUs and one CMS with 3 types of controller; GMC, fuzzy, and Pl.
The test case; evaporator, has 3 controlled variables; separation level (L2), product concentration (X2), and operating pressure (P2).
Fuzzy controller was developed by the NFC steps; the fuzzy rule based controller.
Fuzzy c-means clustering and partition coefficient were applied in the data partitioning step.
In addition, two types of membership function; triangular and bell shape, were used to study the effect of the membership function on the control performance, and the application of fuzzy rule based controller on SCADA system.
There are 10 rules for load change and 30 rules for set point change in the 1(st) fuzzifier.
For the 2(nd) fuzzifier, it needs 22 and 23 rules for the load and set point change.
Triangular gives a smoother control because it has no internal conflicting rules as in the bell shape membership function.
The comparison of these controllers indicates that GMC gives the best control because it by nature includes the feedforward, and decoupling characteristics although it uses only usual feedback control loop.
For fuzzy controller, only the decoupling is included so the control result cannot be better than GMC.
However, this fuzzy controller was trained by GMC since it uses the numerical data from the simulation of evaporator with GMC.
The control efficiency can be lost due to the mapping steps in fuzzy control.
PI gives the worst result because it handles 3 common feedback loops simultaneously, so there still is an inherent coupling effect.
Moreover, PI does not naturally provide the feedforward characteristic.
This thesis is a study of the performance of exterior wallsystems to protect heat transfer the exterior environment intothe building.
The performance of exterior wall systems is usedfor selection of wall material that reduce the cooling load ofthe air-conditioning system, while maintain economicalfeasibility, practical in construction and suitability forhot-humid climate in Thailand.
Types of wall systems are categorized in four groups by twofactors heat transmission coefficient (U-Value) and mass.
Thefour categories of wall systems are wall systems with low heattransmission coefficient and light construction, wall systemswith low heat transmission coefficient and heavy construction,wall systems with high heat transmission coefficient and lightconstruction and wall systems with high heat transmissioncoefficient and heavy construction.
The experiment of theresearch is conducted by installing samples of those wallsystems, 2X2 ft('2), on the wall of a test building facing South.
The air temperature inside the test building is controlled at 21degree C by a mechanical system.
Temperatures at various pointsof the experiment are monitored by scientific instrumentsconsecutively for two weeks.
Then, the data of the experiment areanalyzed to compare the thermal performance and energyconsumption of each sample.
The result of the research indicates that the wall systemsthat have 0.10-0.20 Btu/Fft('2) .
H U-value and that have massbelow six pounds per square feet can reduces cooling load of wallconduction heat gain by 60 percent comparing with four inchesthick brick wall, convention wall.
Compared with annual energyconsumption, that wall systems are appropriate for using inbuilding in Thailand.
An unmatched case-control study had been designed to study of risk factors ofhip fracture among females aged 50 years or above.
The study was conducted betweenMay and Dec, 1998 on altogether 330 individuals.
One hundred and ten cases werechosen among female patients admitted for the first episode of hip fracture to eighthospitals in Bangkok.
Case controls were selected among women living in the samecommunity.
The result of study showed that the major cause of hip fracture were fallsduring walking and changing positions ( getting up / sitting down ).
The fallsoccured in the sitting room and bedroom ( 30% and 24% ).
Sixty-six of falls occurredduring the daytime.
The characteristic were falling on the back or hip.
The floor wasfound to be of polished cement, ceramic and rough cement surfaces ( 33.6%, 17.3% and15.5% ).
Falls on a dry floor both polished and unpolished type was more common thanon a wet one.
The result of univariate analysis found that the risk factors for hip fracturewere lack of exercise; spending four hours or less per day on one's feet; poor lowerlimb function; reduced grip strength; height equal to or above 160 centemetens;muscle loading activity equal to or above 2 kilograms several times a days or weeklyto dally; body mass Index below 20 kg/m('2); severely impaired vision In at least oneeye; osteoarthritis of the knee; diabetes mellitus; peptic ulcers or gut obstruction;widowed / divorced / separated marital status; duration of estrogen therapy belowone year after menopause.
The purposes of this research were to studyprofessional nurses' verbal and non verbalcommunication behaviors and compared professionalnurses' communication behaviors concerning physical andpsychological care with orthopaedic patients inhospitals under the jurisdiction of the department ofMedical Services, Ministry of Public Health, BangkokMetropolitan.
Non-participant observation was used.
Thepopulation consisted of 30 professional nurses workingin orthopaedic ward at Leard Sin and Rajavithihospital.
Research instruments were questionnaireenquiring the perception of professional nurses' roles,the reliability was 0.98 and an observational form onthe nurses' communication behaviors concerning physicaland psychological care with orthopaedic patients, theobservational form reliability was 0.81.
The data wasanalyzed by percent, mean, standard deviation andt-test.
The results of the study revealed as follows :
1. The mean score of professional nurses' positivecommunication behaviors concerning physical andpsychological care with orthothopaedic patients washigher than negative way.
The mean score ofcommunication concerning physical care was higher thanpsychological care and significant at the .01 level.
2. There was no significant difference between themean score of professional nurses' communicationbehavior classified by age.
3. There was no significant difference between themean score of professional nurses' overallcommunication behavior classified by marital status.
But there was difference between the positive verbal,non-verbal and time used in psychological care at the.05 level.
Those who were single had higher mean scoresthan the married.
4. There were no significant difference betweenthe mean scores of verbal, non-verbal and time ofprofessional nurses' overall communication behaviorsclassified by work experience.
But there weredifference between the proxemic (overall), and physicaldistance at 18 inches to 4 feet at the .01 and .05level and time used in psychological care at the .05level.
Those with more than 6 years experience hadhigher mean scores than those with 1-5 yearsexperience.
5. There were no significant difference betweenthe mean scores of verbal, non-verbal and time ofprofessional nurses' overall communication behaviorsclassified by training.
But there was differencebetween the mean score of proxemic (overall) at 4 to 12feet at the .05 level.
Those who had training hadhigher mean scores than those who had not.
6. There was no significant difference between themean score of professional nurses' communicationbehavior classified by the perception of professionalnurses' roles.
This study is to design maintenance planning for humanplasma fractionation equipment at the national blood centrefor reducing equipment downtime causing production drop.
Itis found that the planing system Consists of 5 years mastermaintenance plan, annually maintenance plan, monthlymaintenance plan, weekly maintenance plan with computeraided planning should be carry out.
However, plan theorganization of maintenance department, job description ofemployee that concerned with maintenance, maintenanceinformation system should be support the plan.
By comparing the results of previous time with thoseof the designed maintenance system, it was found thatequipment availability of freezer 30 cubicfeet, refrigerator30 cubicfeet, mistral 6000 and mistral 3000i are increasedby 1.9%, 1.2%, 2.2%, 2.3% respectively.
The purpose of this research was to study dietary patterns and nutritional status of the elderly in Songkhla.
The sample consisted of 178 older persons.
Subjects were interviewed for sociodemographic data and dietary patterns.
Clinical examination and evaluation of weight, hight were assessed fornutritional status.
The results of the study showed that the majority of the elderly had 5 meal-times each day : 3 main meals and 2 light meals.
The elderly consummed rice and cooked-food for 3 main meals while dessert and fruits for light meal.
Most of the aged preferred sea food, soft dessert, pork with medium fat, swamp cabbage and mango but disliked beaf, hard or brittle dessert, cream cake, collard and longan.
Food items which most of the elderly consummed 6-7 days per week were sea food, rice, food which cooked with coconut or palm oil, vegetable and fruit but most of them never consummed curd, instant noodles, cream cake, mineral beverage and uncooked-food.
Most of the elderly did not consummed vitamin or mineral supplement without doctors prescription.
Some of them consummed betel.
They chose to take delicious food.
The elderly and the other persons in their families consummed the same food.
They liked salty flavour and added fish-sauce or salt into cooked-food.
The older persons drank pool-water 5-6 glasses per day.
These subjects consummed five food groups daily : protein carbohydrate fat vitamin and mineral and water.
They had many good dietary patterns such as consummed vegetable and fruit daily, avoided uncooked-food, alcohol or mineral beverage and vitamin or mineral supplement without doctors prescription etc.
and many poor dietary patterns such as consummed pork with medium fat, used coconut or palm oil, chose to take delicious food etc.
The nutritional status assessed by body mass index indicated that most of the elderly (50.5%) had normal nutritional status and 36.0% under nutritional status.
Most of the elderly with three degree nutritional status had normal clinical examination but the subjects who were under nutritional status showed abnormal sings and symptoms more than those with normal or over nutritional status.
These signs and symptoms were sensation loss or burning and tingling of hands and feet, pale conjunctiva or dry membrane etc.
This study showed that nutritional status isdependent, on some dietary patterns such as taking vitamin of mineral supplement, high frequence of consummed high fat or fried food but independent of high frequence of consummed food that cooked with oil, chosing to take food or seeking for knowledge at the 0.05 level of significance.
The objectives of this study is studying the ability of standing in The children with cerebral palsy by Dousa- Hou Program.
To compare the ability of standing in the children with cerebral palsy pre and post Dousa- Hou Program.
Assumption is The ability of standing with cerebral palsy Dousa- Hou Program are increased.
Study group consists of 3 children with cerebral palsy, they have ability to stand but incorrect such as head and back are not straight, shoulder are not balance, stand on toes or feet are not completely flat or feet are not parallel; heel and toe too close or wide.
Study group are students of Sangsawang Foundation in Pre-school level.
The researcher selected by Standing ability in children cerebral palsy Test which researcher designed.
The study is quality research, studied individual cases by Single Subject Research Design, Single baseline design A - B.
Pre - Test and Post - Test 1 mouth, 2 mouth, and 3 mouth.
Research instruments are 1) Program of Dousa- Hou standing, 2) Photos and 3) Standing ability in children with cerebral palsy Test.
Result of study presented score table, graph and comparison table of ability of standing, photos of study group pre - post of program in sitting position, standing on knees position and standing position.
Result of study supported assumption Ability of children with cerebral palsy are increased after practice in Dousa- Hou Program By this study, every children with cerebral palsy in study group had better standing.
The purpose of this reserch was to study the ability of motor fitness of students in the Srinakarinwirot University Prasammitr Demonstration School (Secondary) Mathayomsuksa 1 to 6 students.
The subjects of the study were 786 students, 385 of boys and 401 of girls.
The students were tested by using the Motor Ability Testing of the Barrow Motor Ability Test and Five Minutes Distance Run.
The results were as follows :
1. Mathayomsuksa 1 to 6 boys had the motor ability of the standing long jump = 68.15, 69.18, 75.76, 75,82, 82.90 and 84.53 inches ; zigzag run = 27.27, 27.57, 24.86, 26.96, 25.28 and 26.15 seconds ; medicine ball put = 18.85 , 23.71, 27.36, 28.85, 31.75 and 35.79 feet ; five minute run = 975.56, 1,077.62, 1,042.71, 994.10, 1076.44 and 1,124.54 metres ; weight = 47.92, 53.98, 57.15, 59.89, 60.28 and 65.39 kilogrums ; and a height = 153.73, 162.45, 167.40, 168.14, 170.82 and 173.06 centimetres, respectively.
2. Mathayomsuksa 1 to 6 girls had the motor ability of the standing long jump = 54.51, 52.33, 59.90, 52.41, 43.51 and 50.74 inches ; zigzag run = 31.67, 30.90, 28.39, 31.29, 32.54 and 30.45 seconds ; medicine ball put = 13.00 , 13.32, 14.90, 15.13, 15.60 and 16.54 feet ; five minute run = 743.21, 796.09; 744.04, 812.27, 742.16 and 836.04 metres ; weight = 45.61, 49.26, 50.65, 52.07, 53.75 and 51.02 kilogrums ; and a height = 156.07, 156.94, 159.66, 159.86, 161.40 and 162.26 centimetres, respectively.
This study aimed to compare of body dimension and motor ability between elementary school students living in municipal and living on islands in the east - coast.
The subjects comprised stratified 600 Prathomsuksa 4 - 6 students with 300 males and 300 females of schools in municipal and on island in the east-coast, under the Office of National Primary Education Commission during 1999 academic year.
They were measured the body dimension and tested by using Barrows Motor Ability Test.
The results revealed that :
1. Body dimension.
1.1 The average height of males Prathomsuksa 4 - 6 students living in municipal and living on islands in the east - coast was 137.40 144.22 149.70 and 135.02 138.52 144.48 centimeters, respectively.
When compared the difference, it was found that there was no significant difference among Prathomsuksa 4 students, whereas there was a significant difference at .01 level among Prathomsuksa 5 and 6 students.
1.2 The average height of females Prathomsuksa 4 - 6 students living in municipal and living on islands in the east - coast was 139.92 145.32 152.26 and 135.82 142.92 148.18 centimeters, respectively.
When compared the difference, it was found that there was a no significant difference at .01 level among Prathomsuksa 4 and 6 students, whereas there was no significant difference among Prathomsuksa 5 students.
1.3 The average height while sitting of males Prathomsuksa 4 - 6 students living in municipal and living on islands in the east - coast was 69.22 71.38 74.36 and 68.42 69.54 71.36 centimeters, respectively.
When compared the difference, it was found that there was no significant difference among Prathomsuksa 4 students, whereas there was a significant difference at .05 level and .01 level among Prathomsuksa 5 and 6 students, respectively.
1.4 The average height while sitting of females Prathomsuksa 4 - 6 students living in municipal and living on islands in the east - coast was 69.58 71.96 76.32 and 69.52 71.48 74.60 centimeters, respectively.
When compared the difference, it was found that there was no significant difference among Prathomsuksa 4 and 5 students, whereas there was a significant difference at .05 level among Prathomsuksa 6 students.
1.5 The average weight of males Prathomsuksa 4 - 6 students living in municipal and living on islands in the east - coast was 35.36 41.30 44.46 and 29.56 30.24 36.12 kilograms, respectively.
When compared the difference, it was found that there was a significant difference at .01 level among Prathomsuksa 4, 5 and 6 students.
1.6 The average weight of females Prathomsuksa 4 - 6 students living in municipal and living on islands in the east - coast was 35.72 37.96 43.50 and 28.78 33.98 39.74 kilograms, respectively.
When compared the difference, it was found that there was a significant difference at .01 level among Prathomsuksa 4, whereas there was no significant difference among Prathomsuksa 5 and 6 students.
1.7 The average chest of males Prathomsuksa 4 - 6 students living in municipal and living on islands in the east - coast was 68.48 73.54 74.48 and 64.18 64.88 68.58 centimeters, respectively.
When compared the difference, it was found that there was a significant difference at .05 level among Prathomsuksa 4 students, whereas there was a significant difference at .01 level among Prathomsuksa 5 and 6 students.
1.8 The average chest of females Prathomsuksa 4 - 6 students living in municipal and living on islands in the east - coast was 68.82 72.12 75.28 and 63.62 66.88 71.76 centimeters, respectively.
When compared the difference, it was found that there was a significant difference at .01 level among Prathomsuksa 4 students, whereas there was a significant difference at .05 level among Prathomsuksa 5 and 6 students.
2. Motor ability.
2.1 The average standing broad jump of males Prathomsuksa 4 - 6 students living in municipal and living on islands in the east - coast was 131.80 143.82 158.38 and 142.54 148.46 148.82 centimeters, respectively.
When compared the difference, it was found that there was a significant difference at .01 level and .05 level among Prathomsuksa 4 and 6 students, respectively, whereas there was no significant difference among Prathomsuksa 5 students.
2.2 The average standing broad jump of females Prathomsuksa 4 - 6 students living in municipal and living on islands in the east - coast was 119.10 125.42 141.84 and 124.24 129.36 133.06 centimeters, respectively.
When compared the difference, it was found that there was no significant difference among Prathomsuksa 4 and 5 students, whereas there was a significant difference at .05 level among Prathomsuksa 6 students.
2.3 The average medicine-ball put of males Prathomsuksa 4 - 6 students living in municipal and living on islands in the east - coast was 10.26 12.44 15.22 and 11.98 12.34 14.74 feet, respectively.
When compared the difference, it was found that there was a significant difference at .01 level among Prathomsuksa 4 students, whereas there was no significant difference among Prathomsuksa 5 and 6 students.
2.4 The average medicine-ball put of females Prathomsuksa 4 - 6 students living in municipal and living on islands in the east - coast was 8.42 9.50 12.40 and 9.02 9.02 11.46 feet, respectively.
When compared the difference, it was found that there was no significant difference among Prathomsuksa 4 and 5 students, whereas there was a significant difference at .05 level among Prathomsuksa 6 students.
2.5 The average zig-zag run of males Prathomsuksa 4 - 6 students living in municipal and living on islands in the east coast was 28.55 26.94 25.78 and 28.22 26.76 26.93 seconds, respectively.
When compared the difference, it was found that there was no significant difference among Prathomsuksa 4 and 5 students, whereas there was a significant difference at .05 level among Prathomsuksa 6 students.
2.6 The average Zig-zag run of females Prathomsuksa 4 - 6 students living in municipal and living on islands in the east coast was 29.73 29.40 27.34 and 29.85 30.30 29.65 seconds, respectively.
When compared the difference, it was found that there was no significant difference among Prathomsuksa 4 students, whereas there was a significant difference at .05 level and .01 level among Prathomsuksa 5 and 6 students, respectively.
The aim of the research was to study the effect of plyometric training on vertical jump height and ground reaction force in healthy Thai males.
The subjects were thirty men aged eighteen to thirty years.
All of them had right hand and leg dominance, and no history of severe injury.
They were randomized into two groups; the control group and the plyometric training group.
Both groups were the same age, weight, height, and body mass index.
The plyometric training group was trained three times per week for four weeks.
The plyometric training program in the research was developed from the literature review and the experience of coaches.
It was also tested in the pilot study for ensure its safety as a program.
The testing was performed on the 1(st) 7(th), and 13(th) day of testing.
Before testing, each subject had to warm up and practice in order to accustom himself to the testing equipment.
Three vertical jump height tests were performed with both feet landing without any part of the foot out of the forceplate.
The ground reaction force and positions of ankle, knee, and hip in the highest vertical jump of both the countermovement and the landing phase was calculated.
Additionally, subjects had to jump the same height as the 1(st) day of testing on the 7(th) and 13(th) day of testing.
The results showed a significant increase in vertical jump height after plyometric training.
No significant differences were found for the ground reaction force, however, it tended to decrease in the plyometric training group at both the countermovement and the landing phase.
Although hip angle was significantly decreased after plyometric training both in the jump at the highest position and at the same height of the countermovement phase, no significant difference in ankle, knee, and hip angles were found in either before initial toe touch or landing phases.
Based on the result, it could be concluded that after training for four weeks, three times per week, plyometric training could enhance vertical jump height and tended to decrease the ground reaction force in both the countermovement and the landing phase.
For further study, it would be of interest to investigate angular velocity, speed of jumping, period of each phase, and electromyographic activity after plyometric training.
It would also be interesting to study the effects of this plyometric program in athletes.
Post operative pain is an acute pain which affects physical and mental aspects.
Therefore, nurses play important roles in reducing pain by selecting an appropriate practice.
Massage is one method which can reduce pain and has a good effect on the physical and mental aspects.
The purpose of this study was to study the effects of massage on pain level in post abdominal operative patients.
The sample was a purposive sample which consisted of 10 patients who had gall bladder, stomach, and/or intestinal diseases and who were receiving an abdominal operation at Siriraj Hospital.
Instruments included the handbook of massage and the data collection instruments.
The data collection instruments consisted of three parts : demaographic data record form, pain assessment record form and interview form.
During the first three days after operation, the patients were massaged five times on the shoulders, neck, back, lower legs and feet for thirty minutes.
Before and after massage, the pain sensation, blood pressure, heart rate, and respiratory rate of the patients was measured and their behavioral response to pain was observed.
After the fifth massage, the patients were interviewed regarding their perception toward the massage.
The data were collected during February to March 2001 and analyzed by using frequency, mean and standard deviation.
The results showed that the mean scores of pain sensation and behavioral response to pain, heart rate, respiratory rate, and blood pressure of the patients decreased after massage.
The mean duration during which the patients started to report increased surgical wound pain after massage was 2.52 hours and every patient reported that they liked the massage which they received.
These findings suggest that nurses should include massage as one of the nursing interventions to reduce pain in post abdominal operative patients along with analgesic therapy.
Further study should be done using a quasi-experimental design.
The purpose of this study is to compare the plantar pressure distribution pattern during stance phase of gait between normal and asymptomatic flexible flatfoot groups.
Flexible flatfoot group was considered into two conditions; with and without applying medial longitudinal arch support.
Twenty female subjects aged between 15 and 30 years were recruited for each group.
Age, weight and height were matched for both groups.
The parameters were maximum force, contact areas and peak pressure.
The plantar pressure distribution of left and right feet were measured for normal foot, flatfoot and flatfoot with medial longitudinal arch support by using the EMED-SF system (Novel GmbH, Munich, Germany).
In this study, there were significant differences in maximum force, contact areas and peak pressure at some areas of the foot between left and right normal feet.
Despite this, both feet showed the same pattern of plantar pressure distribution.
Comparisons between normal foot, flatfoot and flatfoot with medial longitudinal arch support, demonstrated significant differences in maximum force, contact areas and peak pressure at the areas of lateral and medial midfoot (p<0.05).
When applying medial longitudinal arch support, flatfoot showed the increased maximum force, contact areas and peak pressure at the area of medial midfoot (p<0.01) and the decreased maximum force and peak pressure at the areas of lateral and medial heel (p <0.01).
There were tendencies for decreased maximum force and peak pressure at the area of hallux.
Maximum force and peak pressure tended to be increased at the area of 3(rd) to 5(th) metatarsal when medial longitudinal arch support was used in flatfoot.
In conclusion, the applying medial longitudinal arch support can lead to the lateral transference of load and pressure redistribution in asymptomatic flexible flatfoot.
The differential growth of skeletal and soft tissuecomponents within the craniofacial complex has an influenceon facial appearance.
The purpose of this thesis weredesigned to investigate not only the relationship betweennasal form and skeletal pattern in Thai population but alsonasal form and age among sex.
The knowledges from thisresearch would be benefit for orthodontic diagnosis andtreatment planning and also provides basis for furtherresearches.
The lateral cephalometric radiographs used in thisstudy were obtained from the department of orthodontics,faculty of dentistry, Chulalongkorn University.
The 400samplings (200 males and 200 females) were selectedpurposively from Thai populations between the age of 10 to20.
The criteria of samples were healthy and untreatedorthodontics.
The soft tissue nasal form and its skeletalpattern were studied from the lateral cephalometry.
There was statistical correlation between nasal formand skeletal pattern at 0.001 level.
Moreover, there wasstatistical correlation between nasal form and age among sexat 0.001 level.
Epidemic disease outbreak has long been one of themore critical problems of Thai society, bringing with itgreat loss of lives.
Since Thai elites during the pre-modernera lacked basic public health knowledge, they often couldnot prevent the recurrence of disease outbreaks.
During the reign of Rama III, the King and the Thaielite started acquiring western knowledge and technology,including modern medicine, and in particular, etiology, andthus realized that diseases originated in microbes, not inkarma or supernatural power.
From this scientific basis as well as an awareness ofthe critical role of human resources in national developmentand social reform during this reign, a rudimentary epidemicdisease prevention program was introduced.
This wasaccomplished through the proclamation of a number of royaldecrees on sanitation and public health, and through theestablishment of health guarantines and modern medicalfacilities throughout the country.
The effort of the government in preventing theoutbreak of epidemic diseases, though initially not wellunderstood by the public at large, has helped lay down asolid foundation for later development of both outbreakprevention and public health in Thailand.
The purposes of this research were to studyinformation needs and uses of members of the Organization ofthe Aging in the areas of content and format of informationand the objectives, sources and problems in usinginformation.
It was found that most of the members of theOrganization of the Aging used information to solve healthproblems, to be up to date, to increase their knowledge, toentertain and to be secure, respectively.
The members of theOrganization of the Aging needed and used information onhealth at high level, especially the topics on illnessprevention, health care and exercises.
Moreover, they neededand used information on security, housing, travel, religionand belief, geography, general knowledge, social welfare,history, culture, law and biography at medium level.
Themembers of the Organization of the Aging needed and usedinformation in various formats at medium level: personalcommunication, demonstration, and printed and non-printedmedia.
Among these, personal communication was the mostneeded and used.
The members of the Organization of the Aging usedinformation from many sources at medium level: the massmedia, persons, institutions and personal collections.
The problems confronted by members of the Organizationof the Aging in using information were at medium level.
Theywere from the members, formats and sources of informationrespectively.
The most serious problems in each aspect were:
the members their health; the format-printed and non printedmedia were expensive; and the sources of information-booksand newspapers were expensive, television and radio programsfor the aging were rare and the distance of institutionsthat were sources of information.
The purposes of this study was first toinvestigate health behavior concerning the Opisthorchisviverrini of the elementary school students inIsaan-nya.
A second purpose was to compare studenthealth behavior between sexes.
One thousandquestionnair constructed by the researcher were mailedto students ramdomly selected from 236 elementaryschools in 13 districts.
Eight hundred and eightyquestionnaires (88 percent) were returned.
The datathen were analyed to optain percentages,means andstandard deviation.
The t-test was also applied todetermine in there was a significant difference betweenmale and female students on health behavior.
The results revealed as follows:
1. Health behavior concerning the opisthorchisviverrini of elementary school students in isaan-nya.
1.1 The students'knowledge concerning theOpisthorchis viverrini was in the "very good" level.
1.2 The students'belief concerning theOpisthorchis viverrini was in the "very good" level.
1.3 The students'practice concerning theOpisthorchis viverrini was in the "good" level.
2. Comparison health behavior concerning theOpisthorchis viverrini of elementary school students inisaan-nya.
2.1 The knowledge'comparison between the maleand female students showed a statistically significantdifference at the level of .05.
2.2 The belief'comparison between the male andfemale students showed a statistically no significantdifference at the level .05.
2.3 The practice' comparison between the maleand female students showed no difference at the levelof percentage.
The purpose of this quasi-experimental researchwas to develop a dischargeplanning model for head injurypatients admitted at Khon Kaen Regional Hospital andMedical Center and test model's effectiveness.
Thecharacteristic of discharge planning model which wasdeveloped is a plan for patient's discharge consisted of5 steps of nursing process.
The model were applied byprofessional nurses who had experienced in nursing carehead injury patients who needed individualize dischargeplanning and co-operated with patients relatives alsocommunicated and coordinated with health team and nursingteam in the unit for developing a discharge plan andimplementing.
There were 5 experimental instrumentsconsisted of patient's record and assesment form dischargeplanning form, discharge planning guide, patient'srelative and patient teaching guide and patient recordand advisory form used in each step of discharge planningprocess.
Instrument for testing of model's effectivenesswere pre and post test of patients'relatives knowledgeabout head injury, test of patients'relatives satisfactionand patients'satisfaction toward discharge planning.
Tests were done 2 weeks after the experiment.
Sampleswere 15 head injury patients, 15 patients'relatives.
The major findings were as following:
1. The overall comparison between pre and post testmean score about basic head injury of patients'relativesfound that post test mean score were significantlyhigher than pre test mean score at .01 level.
Determing7 aspects of knowledge of patients'relatives there wereknowledge of pathophysiology of head injury, food care,medicinal care, environmental and rehabillitational caremean score post test that significantly higher than pretest at .01 level.
Two aspects of physical mental changeand caring and medical appointment were no statisticallydifference at .01 level.
2. Mean score of 3 aspects of patients'relation'satisfaction toward discharge planning were in high level.
3. Mean Score of 2 aspects of patients'satisfactiontoward discharge planning were in highest level.
The purpose of this research is to investigate amoral cognition concerning self-directed behaviors ofsevere drug user adolescents who are currently treatedin Narcotic Clinics Bangkok Metropolis.
Five variablesincluding educational level, addiction duration,duration of treatment in clinics, family's occupationand frequency of medical treatment were used asindependent variables.
The subjects were drawn by simple random samplingtechnique of 180 severe drug user adolescents fromNarcotic Clinics, Bangkok Metropolis.
The instrumentfor collecting data was moral cognition scale :self-directed behaviors developed from Fishbein'stheory.
The procedures of data analysis were thet-test, one-way analysis of variance and Scheffe'multiple comparisons method.
The results are as follows :
1. The self-directed behaviors which are rated bythe subjects as very good and proper were diligent,self-discipline, setting standards for oneself.
Theself-directed behavior which is rated by the subjectsas very bad and improper is vice addiction.
Self-punishment and Self-esteem were behaviors on whichno agreement on what is right or wrong.
2. The five independent variables significantlyaffected moral cognition concerning self-directedbehaviors (P<.05 or lower).
The variables which showedthe highest degree of significance are educationallevel, addiction duration, duration of treatment inclinics, the frequency of medical treatment.
Thevariable which was least significant was family'soccupation.
The purpose of this research is to analyse the costs andtheir components in the treatment of Haemorrhoids withCarbondioxide Laser in comparison with conventional operations.
Costs incurred internal and external of an organization are bothtaken into consideration.
The researh is carried out at thePolice Hospital, using the data form October 1990 to September1992.
The study finds that the costs per head measured in totalcosts, internal costs and exteranl costs of a conventionalsurgery to cure Hemorrhoids are lower than that of theCarbondioxide Laser treatment.
The former has a total costs perhead of 4,587.84 baht an internal costs per head of 2,473.30 bahtand an external costs per head of 4,675.40 baht.
In comparison,the latter has a total costs per head, internal costs per headand external costs per head of 5,129.83 baht, 3,532.75 baht and5,628,.05 baht respectively.
With the latter technique,investment costs under the category of internal costs and medicalcosts under the category of external costs are higher but non -medical costs are lower than that of the former technique.
Thecost sensitivity analysis shows that higher costs ofCarbondioxide Laser treatment are a result of under utilizationof the equipment.
It is also found that Carbondioxide Lasertreatment is viable technique for patients with an average dailyincome that exceeds 600 baht.
Laser - induced fluorescence technique has been widely used in chemical and photobiological analysis for over the past 10 years.
During recent years it has received great interest from various investigators as a potentially useful tool for medical, especially in cancer diagnosis.
The fundamental is that the difference of fluorescence spectrum between cancer tissue and normal tissue.
In this research work, the second - harmonic wave with wavelength at 532 nm which obtained from a pulsed Nd:YAG laser with a pulsewidth of 9.2 ns and a pulse energy of 2.6 mJ/pulse was used as the light source.
Fluorescence measurements for both normal and cancer tissues of breast on 6 patients obtained from the National Cancer Institute were performed.
The experimental results show that the fluorescence spectra of cancerous breast tissue are higher than those of normal breast tissue.
This thesis presents the construction of a medical instrument known as a pulse oximeter.
The development of noninvasive pulse oximeter for real time measurement of oxygen saturation in blood is described.
The optical technique is used in this instrument by passing two light beams of different wavelengths through human tissue.
The transmitted light intensities is detected by photodiode.
The implemented software is used to control and convert the detected signals to the blood owygen saturation.
Results obtained from the tested samples investigation have shown that this noninvasive pulse oximeter data has an arror at an acceptable level of -2 percent of oxygen saturation (SpO(,2)) compared with that of the standard instrument.
X-rays has currently been used widely in industrial and medical application.
However, this method has some limitation in X-ray diagnosis, the operators and patients have high risk from radiation effects due to high intensity beam.
Additionally, the X-ray image cannot be immediately analyzed because it depends on chemical process.
To overcome these problem, the low intensity X-ray imaging system was developed in this research.
This system consists of three parts:- the low power X-ray generator (60 kV , 120 (+,m)A) , the X-ray imaging camera, and a personal computer.
The major part of this system is the X-ray image camera, which consists of an image intensifier ( Microchannel plate (MCP) type) and a CCD camera.
The X-ray image from the image intensifier was captured by the CCD camera and then send to display on the monitor in the real time mode via an image interfacing card.
The spatial resolution of this system obtained from the resolution test pattern is approximately 5 lp/mm when the X-ray generator is operated at 58 kV and 115 (+m)A.
Furthermore, the system was also tested with various real objects, such as human finger bones, an integrated circuit, a needle in a bar of cheese, a connector, an regulator IC, a variable capacitor, and a variable resistor.
It was found that the images were good quality with high contrast.
Having a child is one of many factors in acouple.
It is a sign of love and bonding betweencouples.
Infertility creates many problems for coupleswho want to have a child.
There are many factorsinvolve in infertility both physical and mental factor.
There are many couples asked for help about infertilityproblem.
In Thailand most of the studies were aboutphysical factors, only few concerned aboutpsychological factors.
This is Descriptive study done at infertilityclinic, Chulalongkorn Hospital, between October toDecember 1991.
The objective was to find out thepsychological factors in infertile female aboutemotional factors, adaptation in marriage, sexualidentity, sexual ignorance and personality.
It was found that the mean age were 31.0 yearsand 35.4 years in female and male respectively.
Themajority of the couples were in high level ofeducation, occupation and income.
Duration of marriagewas 1-5 years.
About 62 percent had the history withfamily planning.
About 38% had normal health and 62percent had the history of physical illness.
From CMI,we found that about 46 percent had anxiety and 17percent had depression.
Infertile female had theproblem about emotional factors, adaptation inmarriage, sexual identity and sexual ignorance.
From 16PF, we found that infertile female had the variation ofpersonality in the pattern of anxiety and guilt-prone.
From this study we found that psychologicalfactors were very important to infertile couples.
Formanagement of this problem, the physical and relatedmedical personnels should concern both mental andpsychological health of the couples.
The Objective of this research are to study
1. The cost of provider per unit of each type of healthcare.
2. The average total cost of provider per case :Dengue fever.
Dengue hemorrhagic fever type 1.2.3.4.
3.The average total cost of receiver per case.
4. The cost recovery ratio of the Children Hospital.
5. The estimated cost of curative care for Dengue fever and Dengue hemorrhagic fever in 1995 - 1997.
The study population consists of 70 inpatients diagnosed as patients of Dengue fever.
Denguehemorrhagic fever type 1.2.3.4. at Childrn's Hospitalduring the mid of October until the end of December.1994
The informtion from the patient's files, hospitalpersonnel and patient's relatives are used The finding of this research are
1. The cost of provider per unit of each type of health care is as follows :
complete blood count 50.00 baht.
urinalysis 46.79 baht.
Stool examination 54.83 baht.
Clinical chemistries (liver function) 101.84 baht.
Clinical chemistries (kidney) 59.82 baht,
electrolytes 65.65 baht.
blood gas 43.16 bath,
coagulogram 55.61 bath,
hematocrit18.28 bath,
blood pressure 4.79 baht,
temperature 6.00baht,
pulse 4.67 baht,
Physical examination at out patientdepartment and first time inpatient department 108.13baht.
follow up by doctors 36.76 baht.
X-ray 35.93baht.
5% Dextrose 1/2 Normal saline solution and 5%Dextrose Ringer Acetate per 500 cc 100.99 baht, plasmasubstilute 145.54 baht per 100 cc, paracetamol 5.19baht, toruniquet test 11.05 baht, food 81.01 baht.depreciation for building and utilities 26.91 baht.
2. The average total cost of provide per case : dengue fever 1,485.97 baht.
dengue hemorrhagic fever type 1.2.3. and 4 are 1,341.86 baht. 1592.92 baht. 2,212.88 baht. 1,618.09 baht respectively.
The average total cost from all cases 1,650.34 baht.
3. The average total cost of receiver per case is 3,367.49 baht.
The receiver has paid 1,373.42 baht for medicine medical iquipments, room and board.
4. The CostRecovery Ratio for curative care at Children Hospital is 0.83 of the total expenditure.
5. The estimated cost of curative care in Thailand from 1995 to 1997 will be 45,521,956.64 baht. 127,934,324.90 baht. 74,844,599.60 baht when the number of patients predicted for 1995- 1997 are 28,815 cases, 75,684 cases and 40,997 casesrespectively and the consumer price indexes increases 7 percent in 1995-1996 and 8 percent in 1997.
This thesis aims at studying ethical problems of mothersurrogacy.
Such surrogacy involves medical treatment that helpsan infertile couples to have a child either by contractinganother woman or having another woman as a surrogate.
The studyis divided into 2 parts as follows:
1. Problems of Parenthood : this part clarifies the conceptof parenthood and its corresponding right, especially the rightof "ownership"Biological and reproductional factors areconsidered.
However, it is found that the conflicting claimsbetween the right of surrogate mother and that of "socialparents" can be resolved by considering the rights of the child.
2. Problem of Legitimacy of the Surrogacy Contract : it isconcluded that for a surrogacy to be morally justified, thecondition of surrogate's "genuine" consent has to be fulfilled.
More importantly, the rights and interests of the future childhave to be considered.
Diabetes mellitus is an important medical and publichealth problem.
It leads to a number of debilitatingshort-term and long-term complications.
Many patients withdiabetes mellitus need hypoglycemic agents to control thedisease.
A few studies have shown that Aloe vera, amedicinal plant, contains substances which have hypoglycemiceffect.
The hypoglycemic effect of Aloe vera have not beenstudied in a well-designed clinical trial.
This study is arandomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, cross-overclinical trial.
The result showed that Aloe vera juice has the samehypoglycemic effect as Placebo juice.
The Aloe vera juicedid not have hypolipidemic effect when compared with Placebojuice.
The Aloe vera juice was well-tolerated.
The purpose of this research was to study status andrule of "Maoya" for curing people in rural areas in AmphorRattanaburi, Surin Province.
The Theoretical fromeworksnamely medical system, cause of sickness, superstition andsickness, astrology, karma and sickness, idea of essentialelements, traditional medicine, traditional doctors andevolutionary theory were employed.
This research was usinganthropological research techniques such as participantobservation in collecting data.
The hypotheses of this research were as follows:
1. The belief in caused of sickness made people go totraditional doctors for cure of their sickness.
2. The belief in ghosts made people go to traditionaldoctors for cure of their sickness.
3. The belief in sanctity made people go totraditional doctors for cure of their sickness.
4. The belief in magic made people go to traditionaldoctors for cure of their sickness.
5. The belief in astrology made people go totraditional doctors for cure of their sickness.
6. The belief in essential elements made people go totraditional doctors for cure of their sickness.
7. The belief in traditional medicine system madepeople go to traditional doctors for cure of their sickness.
8. The belief in traditional doctors made people go totraditional doctors for cure of their sickness.
9. The primary group relationship made people go totraditional doctors for cure of their sickness.
10. The effectiveness of curing made people go totraditional doctors for cure of their sickness.
11. The experience of curing made people go totraditional doctors for cure of their sickness.
The finding of the research confirmed the hypotheseswith the exception of number 3 and 6.
Traditional medicinestill exists in rural communities as long as people beliefthat caused of sickness came from supernatural power andthey will go to traditional doctors for cure of theirsickness.
Modern medicine will not be accepted in ruralcommunities.
The purposes of this study were to examine qualityof life and problem in daily living after hearttransplantation.
Samples were 10 heart transplantationrecipients selected among those heart transplantationrecipients who were attended the heart clinic ofChulalongkorn hospital.
The instruments used in thestudy were composed of demographic data, the subjectivequality of life evaluation form, the indepth interviewguideline and the problem in daily livingquestionnaires.
Data was analysed by arithmatic meanand standard deviation.
Content analysis was used toanalyse qualitative data.
Results of the study showedthat the majority of the studied cases had high meanscore on quality of life.
All studied cases reportedbetter quality of life after transplantation.
For thehealth and functioning domain, all studied cases foundtheir health status had dramatic improvement afterheart transplantation.
There were some complicationsafter heart transplantation including hypertension,hyperlipidemia, hypertrichosis, hypergingiva, heartrejection, acne and infection.
All studied cases couldwork and took their family responsibilities as they didbefore their illness.
Some studied cases felt tiredduring and after sexual activity and some decreased ofsexual interest.
For the nursing and treatment domain,all studied cases visited doctor every appointment.
Allstudied cases complied with medical regimen and drugs.
Some reported that they had a cold more often thanbefore transplantation and most of them lacked ofregular exercise.
For the psychological and spiritualdomain, all studied cases satisfied with their life.
But there were some problems in moods.
It was foundthat spouse, family member, friend, monk and faith inreligion had been very supportive during their illness.
For the socio-economic domain, some of the studiedcases reported that the expenses of medical care anddrugs was the major problem after transplantation.
Somestudied cases were supported by socialworker.
For thefamily domain, all studied cases enjoyed their families.
When considered the demographic data, it was found thatmarital status, educational level, employment, incomeand their province were correlated with quality oflife.
The problem in daily living, eight of the studiedcases were at low level, while the other two cases wereat moderate level.
Conclusion, all studied cases improved theirquality of life after heart transplantation.
Theproblem in daily living, eight of the studied caseswere at low level, while the other two cases were atmoderate level.
OBJECTIVE.
To study the effectiveness of low doseintravenous theophylline treatment in premature infantswith idiopathic apnea of prematurity.DESIGN.
Experimental study.SETTINGS. Neonatal unit at chulalongkorn hospital,Bangkok, Thailand.PATIENTS.
8 premature infants (birth weights range from900-1570 gm. ;
gestational ages range from 28-30 wk.)
with the diagnosis of apnea of prematurity who had thefrequency of apnea more than or equal to 4 times in 3hrs.
prior to study period.INTERVENTION.
all infants received loading dose oftheophylline 2.5 mg/kg intravenously following withmaintenance dose of theophylline 1 mg/kg every 8 hrs.
Respiratory rate, heart rate and peripheral oxygensaturation were continously monitoring by using SystemVI/VIS('TM) Infant Monitoring (Airshield VickersMedical) for 72 hrs.
after initial treatment.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES.
Apneic rate, theophylline lelvelat 24,48 and 72 hrs.
before the next dose oftheophylline, side effect of theophylline (tachycardia,hyperglycemia, vomiting, jitteriness, convulsion)
RESULT.
Rate of apneic attack begins to subside within24 hrs. after treatment in 6 infants.
After 48 hrs.,the apneic rate is decreased significantly (p=0.049).
Although the apneic rate does not decreased in 2infants at 24 hrs.
but the severity of apnea isdecreased.
It is found that serum theophylline levelsof these 2 infants are less than 6.5 mcg/mL (4.57, 6.48mcg/mL) which are lower than the others.
Serumtheophylline level is gradually increased but does notreach the steady state by 72 hrs.
The mean level andstandard deviation at 24, 48 and 72 hrs. Are 7.66(2.00), 10.68 (1.92) and 11.81 (1.54) mcg/mLrespectively.
There is no side effect of theophyllinenoted during the study.
CONCLUSION.
Low does intravenous theophylline treatmentseems to be suitable for the management of idiopathicapnea of prematurity.
It gives a satisfactory resultwithout side effect.
Public health service is a basic service providedby the government to improve the health and quality oflife of the people.
The present public health policiesaim at improving the quality and efficiency of healthservice agencies at all levels.
A special focus isplaced upon low level rural health agencies which willbe enabled to render routine and emergency services topatients is order to alleviate the congestion of majorhospital in the city.
Health centers are good example of such low-levelagencies.
A study carried out in Muang District, SuphanBuri province finds that rural people like to use theservices at the health center.
Factors that influencetheir service usage are factors in volving the center(provider) and the service users themselves.
The studyalso finds that important problems facing the centerare lack of acceptance and faith, inappropriatedistribution of the centers and by - pass of users dueto inefficient service a referal and zoning system.
Inother words, major problems have to do with the qualityof services and inappropriate location and setting ofthe centers.
Therefore, in order to improve the quality ofhealth - services at the health center, it is improtantto focus upon medical care and the people who are theservice users.
In systematizing the services andincreasing the number of service centers, it is alsocrucial to consider the following factors :
the numberof population, the radius of services, convenience ofservices, convenience of service access, the centralityof location, service condition and actual serviceusage.
All factors must be considered together.
Themost important thing to remember is that increasing thenumber of service centers may not be as effective asolution as improving service access to the public andimproving the quality of services.
This resolution willimprove health service system particularly healthcenters effectively and will correspond to the presentpublic health policy directly.
Tai Chi Chaun (TCC), a traditional Chinese conditioning exercise, has beenwidely practiced in Thailand.
It requires only little space and no expensiveequipment.
During the performance of TCC, mind concentration and breathing controlare integrated with graceful body movement.
The objective of this study was todetermine the effect of TCC exercise on glycemic control and aerobic capacity inNIDDM (type 2) patients.
Sixteen participants (11 women and 5 men, mean age 58.81(+,ฑ)5yr) were sedentary, type 2 diabetics, on an oral hypo-glycemic drug, insulin, and nospecified diet regimen at study onset and throughout this period.
Exercise TCC about1 hour thrice per week for 16 weeks.
Body weight, percent body fat, flexibility,fasting plasma glucose (FPG), glycosylated hemoglobin (HbAl c), lipid profile, andcardiorespiratory fitness were evaluated at baseline (first week), in the middle (8week), and at the end (16 weeks) of TCC program.
The result showed that 34 per cent significantly increase in flexibility ateighteenth weeks and 60 per cent of TCC exercise at sixteenth weeks in comparisonwith a first week (p<0.05).
FPG and HbAlc significantly decrease 15 per cent (p<0.05)and 13 per cent (p<0.01), respectively from baseline to sixteen weeks.
No significantchange was found in body weight, percent body fat, lipid profile.
In addition, thesesubjects showed 10 per cent significantly increase in VO(,2)peak and 12 per centincrease in peak work rate at the peak exercise (p<0.05).
At the ventilatorythreshold, the increment of 12 per cent was found in VO(,2) and 55 per cent in workrate (p<0.05)
in comparison between first week and sixteenth weeks.
Exerciseintensity was estimated to 70 per cent of maximal heart rate from peak exercise test,which corresponds to moderate exercise intensity.
In conclusion, the regular TCC exercise could improve diabetic controls andphysical fitness.
It is safe effective, suitable and could be a choice of exercisetherapy to recommend for elderly diabetes.
To examine the effects of supplemented vitamin C on endothelialnitric oxide synthase (eNOS) in diabetes mellitus, the animal model ofstreptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats (a single intravenous injectionof STZ ; 50 mg/kg BW) was used.
Male Spraque-Dawley rats weighing 200-250 gwere divided randomly into three groups of control (CON), diabetes (DM) anddiabetic supplementation with vitamin C (DM+Vit.C).
The supplementation ofvitamin C was performed by allowing the animals freely assessed to drinkingwater added 1 g/L of ascorbic acid (Sigma, Chemical Co., USA).
The experiment were performed at 12 and 24 weeks (wks) afterinjection of citrate buffer solution STZ.
On the day of experiment, bodyweight (BW), plasma vitamin C, blood sugar (BS) were evaluated for allanimals.
Isolated heart, aorta and lung used for Western blot analysis wereimmediately collected from every rats.
The results showed that both groups of 12 and 24 wks DM groups havethe significantly increase in blood glucose (BS),
but decrease in BW andplasma vitamin C levels as compared to their age-match control groups.
However, the plasma vitamin C levels was significantly increased inDM+Vit.C group as compared to DM group (p<0.01).
The eNOS protein bands obtained by Western blot analysis usingmonoclonal antibody against eNOS were quantified by Global Lab Imagesoftware analysis.
The values of pixel numbers within each eNOS band fromimage analyzed were directly converted to amount of eNOS proteins of eachsample by the standard equation, Y = 5.9 x 10('3)X.
After that all convertedconcentration of eNOS proteins were then normalized using the correlationby 100% equal to 5 (+,m)g total protein.
It was found that the diabeticstate caused the reduction of eNOS protein expression in the heart but notin the lung for both 12 and 24 weeks.
Interestingly, it also found thatlung have significantly higher eNOS protein levels in DM+Vit.C as comparedto DM for both 12 and 24 wks (p<0.001).
In conclusion, the present study has demonstrated that theapplication of digital image analysis can be used for convertingqualitative method, such as Western blotting, to quantitative method.
Byusing standard protein, the sensitivity of its application is well enoughfor differentiate the changes of protein content in microgram level.
Andthe accuracy of this application is within (+,ฑ) 15.76%.
From the presentresults indicated that the endothelial dysfunction induced by diabetichyperglycemia has been resulted to the decrease in eNOS protein level inheart but not in lung of DM rats.
Therefore, we hypothesized that it mightdue to the difference of high-and low-flow, that mediated eNOS proteinsynthesis, in heart and lung, respectively.
However, this finding suggeststhat vitamin C supplementation could prevent the diabetic-inducedendothelial impairment, especially to prevent eNOS protein damage in highflow systemic circulation.
Therefore, it is suggested that vitamin C mightbe a great chemopreventive agent for diabetic cardiovascular complications.
Objectives : To determine the prevalence of hyperlipidemia,hyperinsulinemia and to identify the relationship of fat patterning,familial history of hyperlipidemia, ischemic heart disease, diabetesmellitus to hyperlipidemia and hyperinsulinemia.
Design : Observational study design.
Setting : Pediatric department of King Chulalongkorn hospital andBangkok Christian school.
Target populations : Children and adolescents age between 4-16years, who had body weight greater than 120% of percent weight for height,and did not have any endocrine disease, chromosome abnormalities or takenany drugs.
Intervention : All subjects were measured weight, height, hipcircumference, waist circumference, waist/hip circumference ratio and takenfamilial history of hyperlipidemia, ischemic heart disease and diabetesmellitus.
The 12 hours fasting venous blood lipid and insulin level wasmeasured by enzyme colorimetry and immunometric assay.
Results : Sixty-five obese children had hypercholesterolemia19%,hypertriglyceridemia 28%, High LDL 16% , Low HDL 3% andhyperinsulinemia26.2%.
There are no relationship between hyperlipidemia andseverity of obesity, BMI, waist circumference, hip circumference, waist/hipcircumference ratio and familial history of hyperlipidemia, ischemic heartdisease, DM.
There was a significant association between hyperinsulinemiawith degree of obesity (P-value 0.024) especially morbid obesity(oddratio=16 as compared to mild obesity)and with age more than 10 years butnot associated with hyperlipidemia or BMI.
Conclusions : Obese children and adolescents had high prevalenceof hyperlipidemia and hyperinsulinemia.
There was a significant associationwith severity of obesity especially morbid obesity and age more than10 years.
The purpose of this descriptive study was to survey health status ofThai physicians and factors related to health by systematic random samplingaccording to license numbers from CCME registration (Center for ContinuingMedical Education).
The study was conducted during December 2002 and March2003 by mailing questionnaires and telephone interviewing to 440 Thaiphysicians.
Data were analysed for percent, mean, median, standarddeviation, and tested for association by Chi-square.
The response rate was 86.36% (380/440).
The results showed that 380Thai physicians were 229 male (60.3%) and 151 female (39.7%), mean age was40.8 years, 64.2% were medical specialists.
Thai physicians had goodsatisfaction in the occupation (60.2%), and mean working time was 62.4hours per week.
Regarding health status, this survey found that there were241 physicians had no underlying diseases (63.8%) and allergy was the mostcommon disease (20.6%), and the second was hypertension (10.8%).
In thepast six months, Thai physicians were most frequently ill with the upperrespiratory tract infection (35.8%).
Regarding occupational hazards, thephysicians exposed everyday to blood, anesthetic gases and radiation (23.74.7 and 3.2%, respectively).
There were statistical association between ageand hypertension, diabetes and cancer (p < 0.05).
This result shows that health status of Thai physicians should becollected and improved.
Background : Some diabetic patients have defects in T lymphocytefunction and phagocytic activity of macrophages that can affectimmunogenicity after vaccination.
Immunological response after vaccinationin diabetic patients have been inconclusive, partly due to inability toexclude the natural immunity factor for example studies on influenza andpneumococcal vaccines.
Rabies is a life-threatening disease but can beprevented by vaccination which is highly effective.
Rabies vaccination isquite common in Thailand (up to 240,000 patients/year).
We studiedpre-exposure rabies vaccination in diabetic patients to determine theeffectiveness of rabies vaccine in preventioning this common andlife-threatening disease.
Objective : To study the response of pre-exposure rabiesintramuscular vaccination in diabetic patients.
Design : Descriptive study.
Subjects and Method : Thirty-three type 2 diabetic patients whovisited Chulalongkorn diabetic clinic were enrolled.
All patients receivedthree doses of 0.5 ml purified vero rabies vaccine intramuscularly on day0, 7 and 28. Rabies neutralizing antibody (Nab) titers were determined bythe rapid fluorescent focus inhibition test on day 0 and 42.
Results : All patients developed protective antibody concentration(Nab > 0.5 IU/ml) against rabies on day 42.(Response rate 100%) Thegeometric mean of Nab titers are 20.82 IU/ml (range 2.049-2.54).
Nocorrelation between levels of antibody and any patient characteristics e.g.duration of diabetes, glycemic control or diabetic complications.
Noserious adverse effects or systemic reactions were reported.
Conclusion : All Diabetic patients have protective immunologicalresponse after intramuscular pre-exposure rabies vaccine at day 42 postimmunization.
Background : Urinary excretion of transforming growth factor-beta(TGF-(+,b)) are associated with progression of diabetic nephropathy (DN).
Thiazolidinediones could reduce urinary protein excretion in patients withmicroalbuminuric DN.
Objective : To evaluate the effect of pioglitazone, a thiazolidinedione,on urinary TGF-(+,b) excretions in type 2 diabetic patients withmacroalbuminuria.
Methods : Patients with type 2 diabetes with macroalbuminuria(albuminuria > 300 mg/d or proteinuria > 500 mg/d) were randomly assigned toreceive pioglitazone (30mg/d, n=14) or placebo (n=16), for 12 weeks.
Results : Glycemic control and blood pressure in both groups were notsignificantly different.
Urinary TGF-(+,b) excretion was decreased by 47.8% inthe pioglitazone group but was elevated by 59.7% in the placebo group (p=0.011).
Urinary protein excretion in the pioglitazone group was reduced from 1.64 to0.98 gram/day (g/d), or 40.1 % which was significantly different (p=0.016) fromthe 4.3% increase (from 1.72 to 1.80 g/d) in the placebo group.
Conclusions : Besides the effectiveness in blood sugar control,pioglitazone could salutarily reduce urinary TGF-(+,b) excretion and proteinuriain type 2 diabetic patients with macroalbuminuria.
The objective of this study was to analyze the cost-effectiveness of diagnosticprogram for gestational diabetes,
comparison between BMA Medical college and Vajira Hospital Practical Guideline and American Diabetic Association Recommendation.
By comparing the total cost of blood sugar test in pregnant women periodically
(first visit, 24-28 weeks of gestational age, 32 weeks of gestational age)
andfuture cost which corresponded to each program and the number of correctly diagnosis ofgestational diabetes.
The results were shown that the total cost which comprised of health provider of each program were 244,496.44 and 322,860.90 baht respectively.
And patient's cost were 156,714.23 and 333,947.26 similarly.
The effectiveness were measured by the number of correctly diagnosis of gestational diabetes in this study were 36 and 30 casesrespectively also.
The cost-effectiveness in health provider's perspective of each program were 6,791.57 and 10,762.03 baht per case respectively.
The cost-effectiveness in patients perspective of each program were 4,353.15 and 11,198.24 baht per case similarly .
In this study, it is clearly demonstrated that BMA Medical College and Vajira Hospital Practical Guideline is more cost-effective than American Diabetic Association Recommendation in diagnosis of gestational diabetes.
Neural networks is one of many techniques used in classification.
A situation which prevents good performance in this task is the limited number of available samples, since neural networks is not able to learn efficiently from the training samples in order to reach a satisfactory performance.
This work presents techniques which could be used to improve performance of the classification under such constrain.
The data used for the work were time series in control chart pattern recognition and heart disease data.
From original sources with sufficient number of samples, the sample sets were then reduced considerably and unproportionally in each class.
These hampered the performance to no more than 83.33% and 80.00% accuracy respectively.
Techniques known as samples duplication, cross-validation, leave-one-out cross validation and synergistic neural networks were then utilized in order to compensate for the limited samples.
The results reveals that samples duplication together with synergy of neural networks yielded the highest improvement for the classification of control chart pattern recognition data while samples duplication did so for the heart disease data with the accuracy level of 93.33% and 86.67% respectively.
The purposes of this research were to studylifestyles regarding inhibiting of disease, healthpromotion, and maintaining quality of happy life of theelderly with ischemic heart disease and to determinethe relationships between personal factors, familysupport, and lifestyles of these people.
The subjects of this study were 120 elderly withischemic heart disease from the Heart Clinic of KingChulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, selected by simplerandom sampling technique.
The instrument used in datacollection was a set of questionnaire elicitingpersonal factors, family support, and lifestyles whichwere content validated and test for the internalreliability.
The Cronbach alpha were 0.88 and 0.73,respectively.
The statistics used in this study werethe percentage, mean, standard deviation, Chi-square,and Pearson's product moment correlation coefficient.
The major results of this study were as follows:
1. The mean scores of total lifestyles of theelderly with ischemic heart disease was in a good level(X('-) = 3.18) and the mean scores of inhibiting ofdisease, health promotion, and maintaining quality ofhappy life was in a good level. (X = 3.14, X = 3.35, X= 3.02)
2. There were no significant relationshipsbetween sex, education level, income, and lifestyles ofthe elderly with ischemic heart disease at a level of0.05.
3. There was a significant relationship betweenfamily support and lifestyles of the elderly withischemic heart disease at a level of 0.05.
The purpose of this study was to explore the prevalence of depressionin children with congenital heart disease and the factors associated withdepression.
The subjects were 350 children with congenital heart disease ,who were 10-15 years old and met the research criteria.
The subjects weretreated at the time of study in pediatric cardiology clinic at SirirajHospital, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Ramathibodi Hospital andQueen Sirikit National of Child Health.
The research instruments were ademographic questionnaire, Children's Depression Inventory (CDI), TheCornell Interview of Peers and Friends (CIPF), child rearing, relationshipwith family member and socioeconomic status questionnaire.
The data wereanalysed by spss/pc+.
Percentage, mean and standard deviation were computedChi-square test (x('2)) was performed to determine the relationship betweendepression and the factors associated with depression.
The study found that the prevalence of depression in children withcongenital heart disease was 30.9 %.
The factors had been statisticallysignificant related to depression in these children were patient'sage(p<.05), patient's education (p < .01), relationship with family member(p < .05), family socioeconomic status (p < .01) and relationship in peergroup (p <.01).
Objective : To study the total cost and unit cost of inpatientchildren with heart disease at King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital.
Design : Prospective Descriptive Study
Setting : Pediatric inpatient cardiology unit, King ChulalongkornMemorial Hospital.
Patients : Patients admitted to pediatric inpatient cardiologyunit, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital during June 1 , 2002 - November30, 2002.
Methods : Medical care cost was collected from the patient's recordand routine service cost used data from "Cost analysis of patients servicesin King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital" by Pirom Kamolratanakul, et al inthe year 2001.
The average cost per one patient, cost per differentmethods of treatment, cost per different types of heart diseases and costper different age groups of patient were calculated.
Result : During the study period, 175 patients were admitted andthere were 2,165 patient days.
The average patient day was 12.4 days.
Totalmedical care cost, cost per one patient cost per one patient day was8,747,037 baht, 49,983.07 baht and 4,040.20 baht respectively.
Total costper one patient was 95,343.90 baht, and total cost per one patient day was7,706.78 baht.
The medical care cost encountered 52% of the total cost andthe cost from surgery was 43% of medical care cost.
Patients with hightreatment cost included newborn patient, patient with cyanotic heartdisease, and patient who need surgical treatment.
Conclusion : The cost for treatment children with heart diseasewas high.
Newborn patient, patient with cyanotic heart disease, and patientwho need surgical treatment had high treatment cost.
Good administrationcan lower this expenditure.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the outcomes ofpharmaceutical care for ischemic heart disease outpatients at Ratchaburihospital during 1 September to 31 December 2002.
Ninety - eight randomisedpatients were recruited from outpatient clinic.
The activities inpharmaceutical care include: identifying, preventing and resolving allactual and potential drug therapy problems; monitoring of drug therapy,providing drug information to physicians and counseling to patients.
The result of study showed 171 drug therapy problems (DTP) in 90patients.
The most three common types of DTP were noncompliance 111DTP(64.9%) in 70 patients (71.4%), need for additional drug therapy 28DTP(16.4%) in 28 patients(28.6%), and adverse drug reaction 14 DTP (8.2%)in12 patients(12.2%), respectively.
The most common causes of DTP indescending order were: patients lacked of knowledge about drugs anddisease, physicians lacked of complete information about patients, andmedication errors respectively.
Of all the DTPs, 37 DTPs(21.6%) wereprevented, 111 DTPs(64.9%) were resolved and 23 DTPs (13.5%) were unsolved.
After pharmacist's intervention, 54 interventions (85.7%) were accepted, 7interventions (11.1%) were partially accepted and 2 interventions (3.2%)were unaccepted.
Physicians had good attitude and satisfied with thepharmaceutical care as well as the patients and the project should becontinued.
This study can be concluded that this pharmaceutical care process canimprove the patient care of heart disease and the patients will receivemaximum benefit from drug therapy.
The purpose of this research was to study the effects of using sexual knowledgeprogram on sexual attitude, anxiety, and behaviors of the patients with coronary heartdisease.
The participants were 60 male patients who were followed up at OPD MedicineThammasat Hospital.
All of them were divided into the experimental group and the controlgroup with 30 each.
The experimental group received sexual knowledge program for one houreach week, 4 weeks in the row, while the control group received only general knowledge onthe coronary heart disease, also for one hour each week, 4 weeks in the row.
The results show that:
1. There were statistical significance difference between before and after recevied sexual knowledge program on sexual attitude, anxiety, and behavior of the patients with coronary heart disease at .01 level.
2.There were statistical significance difference between the experimental and control group after using sexual knowledge program on sexual attitude, anxiety, and behavior of the patients with coronary heart disease at .01 level.
Coronary heart disease (CHD) is a chronic disease and has caused physical, mental, and socioeconomic impacts on patients to have a good health romoting behavior in nutrition, the patients would have a better quality of life.
The purposes of this study were to study health promoting behavior in the nutrition of CHD patients and factors which can predict the health promoting behavior in nutrition such as perceived benefits of action, perceived barriers to action, gender, age, marital status, education, occupation, income and duration of illness.
The subjects of this study were 150 CHD patients, who were followed in the medical out patients departments and heart clinics at Chulalongkorn Hospital, Rajvithi Hospital and Siriraj Hospital.
Purposive sampling -was used in this study.
The subjects were interviewed and data was collected on demographic, health promoting behaviors in nutrition, perceived benefits of action and perceived barriers to action.
The data were analyzed by using percentage, mean, standard deviation and stepwise multiple regression.
The results of this study indicated that the subjects had good health- promoting behaviors in nutrition (X(-) = 3.17, SD = 0.91).
Perceived barriers to action and marital status could predict the health promoting behaviors in nutrition at 38 percentage at a statistically significant level 0.001.
These finding suggest that perceived barriers to action and marital status should considered in order to encourage health-promoting behaviors in nutrition of patients with coronary heart disease.
The purpose of this quasi experimental research wasto examine the effects of nursing care facilitatingself-care on satisfaction and health status of myocardialinfarction patients.
The research samples consisted of30 convalescent myocardial infraction in-patients assignedinto an experimental group and a control group by matchpaired.
Research instruments were the plan of nursing carefacilitating self-care, satisfaction questionnaire andhealth status scale developed by the researcher.
Thereliability of the latter tools were .96 and .88,respectively.
The major findings were as followed:-
1. The mean score of patient satisfaction of thepatients receiving the nursing care facilitating self-carewas significantly higher than that of patients in the controlgroup, at the .01 level.
2. The mean score of total health status of theexperimental group after receiving the nursing carefacilitating self-care was significantly higher thanbefore the experiment, at the .01 level.
Similar findingswere found when considering the patients' health statusin the aspects of recovering from discomfort, acceptingtheir own limitation and practicing self-care appropriately.
However, there was no different between the mean scoresof the health status in the sapect of sleep and restbefore and after the experiment.
3. The mean scores of health status of the experimentalgroup both during and after the experiment were significantlyhigher than those of the control group, at the .001 level.
The purpose of this research was to study the effects ofRogerian group counseling on reducing stress in schizophrenicpatients' relatives.
Hypotheses were that
(1) stress of theexperimental group after having participated in Rogerian groupcounseling would decrease significantly and
(2) stress of theexperimental group after having participated in Rogerian groupcounseling would be significantly lower than stress of thecontrol group.
The research design was the control grouppretest-posttest design.
The instrument was the Stress in livingwith Schizophrenic Patient Survey developed by the researcher.
The sample was 15 schizophrenic patients' relatives atSomdetchaophraya Hospital.
They all had score in Stress inliving with Schizophrenic Patient Survey higher than 75percentiles (47.75 scores from 90).
This volunteer sample wasdevided into two groups: the 7 persons who were able toparticipate in Rogerian group counseling for 3 hours each weekfor 8 consecutive weeks were assigned to the experimental groupand the 8 persons who were unable to participate in the groupswere asked to stand for the control group.
The researcher wasthe group leader.
The t-Test was utilized for data analysis:
The results showed that after having participated inRogerian group counseling stress in schizophrenic patients'relatives decreased significantly at the .05 level and stress inthe experimental group after having participated in Rogeriangroup counseling was significantly lower than that of the controlgroup at the .05 level.
The purpose of this study was to determine the prevalencerate of mental problems of epileptic patients, to compair mentalproblems in the different epileptic type and to study basic datafor further study in mental health.
The sample used in this studywas composed of 100 epileptic patients.
The instruments employedwere structure interview and Symptom Distress Check List - 90(SCL-90)
The major findings were followed:-
1. The prevalence rate of mental problems of epilepticpatients was 0.48.
The four dimensions of symptoms ;somatization, phobic anxiety, psychoticism and paranoid ideationwere statistical significantly different scored from normallevel.
The first three infromed dimensions were higher scoredthan normal level.(p<0.01,p<0.05 and p<0.01)
The last dimension,paranoid ideation, was below the normal level. (p<0.05)
2. The mental problems, psychoticism dimension, of PrimaryGeneralized Epilepsy was statistical significantly higher thanthat of Temparal Lobe Epilepsy at 0.05 level.
The objectives of this research were to study the level ofsatisfaction and problems of patients under the social securityscheme at outpatient department of Buddhachinaraj Hospital.
Theresults indicated the effectiveness and the continuity of thehealth service.
Data collection was done among 350 patientsduring December 1991-February 1992 by using time and motionstudies and interview survey about satistacfion, convenience,personal relationship, coordination, service quality and medicalinformation in each outpatient devision.
The average time consumption of the whole medical servicewas 53 minutes.
Most of the patients were satisfied withhospital service (x(bar)=3.77 from total 5).
The level ofsatisfaction in service of each division was high and waitingtime was the main problem.
Low level of satisfaction about druginformation and process of service were found in the pharmacydivision.
Other encounter problems accompanied this study weremisunderstanding in medical service process, the benefitsconvered by the law, unwilling to use essential drugs and theinaccessibility to services.
Thus, the director can use thisdata to plan how to manage health service in the most effectivestrategy
The objective of this research was to survey the self-usageof traditional drugs in diabetic out-patients at communityhospitals in Surat Thani province.
The prevalence rate of the self-usage of traditional drugswith modern medication was 53.7 percent.
By using Chi-square toanalyse 21 factors proposed to be related to drug use,
7 factorswere the most statistically related (P < .05), namely
1) beliefin another treatments
2) home zone
3) age
4) attitude towardsmodern medication efficacy
5) educational level
6) attitude incommonly using traditional drugs and
7) duration of diabetesmellitus (DM) respectively.
The patients' fasting blood sugar (FBS) levels were notstatistically effected by the self-usage of traditional drugswith modern medication (P > .05).
The traditional drugs used with modern medication were
Andrographis paniculata Wall.
ex Nees, Coccinia qrandis Voigt,Orthosiphon grandiflorus Bolding, Mimosa pudica Linn.
Phyllanthusacidus Skeels and Tectona grandis Linn.
53.5 percent of the diabetic patients have the attitude incommonly using traditional drugs at moderate level,
30.7 percentat high level and 15.8 percent at low level.
This research did not include the investigation on theprocess of patients' decision-making to use traditional drugs andtheir clinical effects.
The purposes of this research were to study and to compareknowledge, attitude, and nursing management of ward nursemanagers for continuing care of chronic illness patients at homein the Hospitals under the Jurisdiction of the Ministry ofDefense.
The major findings :
1. Ward nurse managers had knowledge at the moderate level,positive attitude, and nursing management at the moderate level.
2. There were no statistically significant difference ofknowledge classified by nursing education, experience of wardnurse mangers, and experience of nursing practice at .05 level.
3. There were no statistically significant difference ofattitude and nursing management for continuing care of chronicillness patients at home, classified by nursing education, andexperience of ward nurse managers at .05 level.
There wasstatistically significant difference at .05 level as classifiedby experience of nursing practice.
4. The process of planning, in aspect of assessment, waslisted by ward nurse managers as the problem found most (N = 28).
The problems were named as
1) over work load
2) shortage ofpersonnel
3) the missing information
4) no policy for continuingcare at home.
In these findings, over work load was reported as problemthat found in every category of the context.
The purposes of this research were to study knowledge andability of student nurses in patients assessment using Gordon'sFunctional Health Pattern and to compare knowledge and abilitybetween the student nurses who were taught by using Gordon'sfunctional Health Pattern and Conventional teaching.
The sampleswere 28 third year student nurses of Kurkaroon College of Nursingwho practiced on medical-surgical nursing, selected by using ;stratified random sampling method.
The samples were devided intocontrol and experimental groups.
The Pretest-Posttest ControlGroup Design was used in this study.
The research instrumentswere assessment tool, lesson plan, test and checklist for thecovering of patients assessment and nursing diagnosis.
The datawere analyzed by t-test.
The major findings were :
1. The knowledge and ability of student nurses in patientassessment after being taught by using Gordon's FunctionalHealth Pattern were statistically significant higher than beforeat .01 level.
2. The knowledge and ability of student nurses in patientassessment who were taught by using Gordon's Functional HealthPattern were statistically significant higher than those weretaught by conventional teaching at .01 level.
The purposes of the study were to study thehealth promotion behaviors of midlife women in therural Northeastern Region, and to search for thevariables that correlated with health promotionbehaviors of the midlife women.
These variables werehealth knowledge, perceived health status, perceivedhealth locus of control, and personal factors.
Theresearch subjects consisted of 397 midlife women in therural Northeastern Region, selected by multi-stagesampling technique.
Instrument was the questionnaire.
The results of this study were as follows:
1.Health promotion behaviors of midlife women inthe rural Northeastern Region were at the moderatelevel.
2.Health knowledge of the midlife women was atthe fairy good level but perceived health status andperceived health locus of control were at the moderatelevel.
3.Health knowledge, perceived health status andinternal health locus of control were positivesignificant correlated to health promotion behaviors ofthe midlife women, at the .05 level.
4.Powerful others health locus of control andchance health locus of control were negativesignificant correlated to health promotion behaviors ofthe midlife women, at the .05 level.
5.Education status, family income and maritalstatus were not significant correlated to healthpromotion behaviors of the midlife women, at the .05level .
The purposes of the study were to identify the level of health status in familycaregiver of schizophrenic patients, and determine the relationships between personalfactors, coping, social support, self-care practice, and health status in familycaregiver of schizophrenic patients.
The samples consisted of 180 family caregivers ofschizophrenic patients,who were treated in out patient departments of mental healthhospitals,under the jurisdiction of Division of Mental Health, selected by multistagesampling technique.
Reseach instruments consisted of a coping scale, a social supportscale, a self-care practice scale, and a health status questionnaires .
Theinstruments were tested for content validity.
Cronbach' s alpha coefficient of thescale were .72, .74, .72 and .88 respectively.
Data were analyzed by usingpercentage, mean, standard deviation, chi-square and Pearson-product momentcorrelation coefficient.
The major findings were as follows
1.The health status in family caregiver of chronic schizophrenic patients wereat the good level, in which the physical health status was at good level, and mentalhealth status was at the moderate level.
2.There were no relationships between family income coping, and healthstatus in family caregivers of schizophrenic patients.
3.There were positive and significant relationships between social support,self-care practice, and health status of family caregivers of chronic schizophrenicpatients (r =.52, .62), at the .05 level.
Those who have become amputees have physical, mental and psychosocial problems which force them to change their behavior and lifestyle in order to have normal self-dependent lives.
The objectives of this survey research are to identify the perceived self-efficacy, perceived health status, and health promoting lifestyle of amputees and to study the relationships between demographic factors, perceived self-efficacy, perceived health status and health promoting lifestyle of amputees.
The subjects of the study were 120 outpatient amputees who came to follow up at the prosthetic clinics at Siriraj, Lerd Sin and Pramongkutklao hospitals from April to October, 1997.
The data were collected from patient records and using questionaires.
The data were analysed with the SPSS/PC(+) program including the following statistics: frequencies, percentage, Chi-square and Pearsons Product Moment Correlation coefficient.
These results show that most amputees had moderate perceived general self-efficacy scores.
Most had moderate composite perceived specific self-efficacy scores, and composite health promoting lifestyle scores.
There were statistically significant correlations between education, incomes, perceived general self-efficacy, perceived specific self-efficacy, perceived health status and composite health promoting lifestyle for the amputees.
These results suggest that for improved quality of life for amputees, perceived self-efficacy and exercise should be promoted.
The purpose of this thesis was to determine the effect ofinformation giving on pre-operative anxiety level of orthopedicsurgical patients.
The research samples consisted of 30orthopedic surgical patients who were admitted in PramongkutklaoHospital and assigned into two experimental groups by matchpaired.
The first experimental group received procedureinformation while the second group received procedure and sensoryinformation.
The instruments were the State Anxiety Inventoryand anxiety observation scale developed by the researcher.
Thereliability of the tools were .93 and .85, respectively.
The major findings were as follows :-
1. In the first experimental group, there was nosignificant difference between the mean scores before and afterthe experiment.
2. In the second experimental group, the mean score ofanxiety level after the experiment was significantly lower thanbefore the experiment, at the .05 level.
3. After the experiment, there was no significantdifference between the mean scores of the anxiety level ofpatients in the first and second experimental groups.
Oral mucositis is a severe and common problem among patients receiving chemotherapy and / or radiotherapyon oral and adjacent areas.
It affects quality of life by causing physical distress, psychological problem, andsocioeconomic burdens.
Nurses should aware that oral mucositis is a serious problem that requires attention,prevention and relief.
The purpose of this study is to develop a nursing guideline to prevent and relieve oral mucositis among patientsreceiving chemotherapy and / or radiotherapy through a systematic review and research utilization process.
Fromsearching both published and on-line literature during a 15 year period, the scientific evidences related to preventionand relief of oral mucositis were collected and incorporated into the guideline.
Relevant studies, related articlesand published guidelines / protocols were analyzed and criticized to develop the nursing guideline.
The guidelineconsists of three steps;
1) Assessment of precipitating factors and oral mucositis based on WHO scale;
2) Providinginformation on causes, signs, symptoms, and importance of oral hygiene; and demonstrating methods of oral hygienecare, usage of mouthwash solutions, frequency of care, and symptoms management; and
3) Demonstratingthe recording and monitoring process of oral mucositis.
The validity of the content and the feasibility of applying the nursing guideline in clinical practice were confirmedby experts. The final guideline incorporated the suggestions of the experts.
This study was experimental research with a simple cross over design to examine the effect of handreflexology on nausea, retching, and vomiting in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy at the Radiologyand Chemotherapy Division of the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration Medical College and VajiraHospital.
Each of thirty patients were ransomed into control and experimental period.
The experimentalperiod received true hand reflexology.
The control period received mimic hand reflexology.
The researchintervention instrument was the manual hand reflexology for patients cancer receiving chemotherapy.
The instruments for collecting data were the questionnaire of demographic data and medical history,the assessment tool of nausea, retching, and vomiting.
The data were analyzed by using frequency, percentage,minimum, maximum, mean, standard deviation, Covariance (ANCOVA) and used the pre-test score as a covariate.
The results of this study were the majority of participants (70%) were female; most of them wereaged 40-59 years (66.7%), the most of participants had been diagnosed with breast cancer (33.3%).
The cancer patients with chemotherapy receiving true hand reflexology had less nausea, retching and vomitingthan the period that receiving mimic hand reflexology both at the 0 minute, 120 minute of study (p < 0.001).
Thus, it is recommended that hand reflexology is a complementary nursing procedure in the medicalmanagement of cancer patients receiving chemotherapy to relieve nausea, retching, and vomiting.
The objective of this prospective, non-randomized, controlled trial was to determine the impactof physician-pharmacist collaboration on lipid management in diabetic patients at the Bangkok MetropolitanAdministration General Hospital compared with usual care.
The primary outcome was the achievement rateof LDL-C goal.
The secondary outcomes included changes in lipid parameters, changes in usage rate of lipid modifyingagents, types and acceptance rates of pharmacist's interventions.
One hundred and 108 patients were enrolled intothe usual care and the intervention groups, respectively.
Baseline demographics and lipid parameters were similarbetween two groups.
At the end of the study, the mean LDL-C was significantly lower in the intervention group(111.8 ± 33 mg/dL vs 124.8 ± 37 mg/dL; p = 0.008).
The proportion of patients who reached the LDL-Ctarget of < 100 mg/dL in the intervention group was significantly higher than those in the usual care group(39.8% vs 25.0%; p = 0.023).
Beneficial changes in other lipid parameters in favor of the intervention group were alsoobserved.
Overall, clinical pharmacists made 60 interventions regarding the modification of lipid lowering therapy,21 of these were accepted.
Sixty interventions on treatment monitoring were made, 32 were accepted by physicians significantly more patients in the intervention group received statin therapy.
In conclusion, physician-pharmacist collaboration could effectivelyincrease the achievement rate of LDL-C targets in diabetic patients compared with the usual care.
The findings of ourstudy support the benefits of multidisciplinary approach in dyslipidemia management.
The purpose of this study is to develop a clinical nursing practice guideline, based on the Evidence BasedModel (Soukup, 2000), and a suitable assessment form, to gauge a patient's readiness to transfer fromthe Coronary Care Unit (C.C.U.).
The evidence used in developing this clinical nursing practice guideline consistsof 7 research studies and 1 study of nursing practice standards.
All 7 studies were non experimental and involvedcorrelational descriptive research and qualitative research or a case study.
The clinical nursing practice guidelinereflects the evaluation of 6 issues of condition and pathology.
After critical review and appraisal by 3 specialists,the clinical nursing practice guideline was modified and improved.
As a result of this study, it is recommended that the practice guideline be trialled and tested before beingimplemented in real case situations.
It requires the approval and acceptance of doctors as well as nurses beforeit can be used effectively.
In addition, further study on this subject for unceasing improvement should beundertaken, and the clinical nursing practice guideline should be tested by outcome research.
This study was a descriptive research aiming to investigate the relationships among personal factors,learned resourcefulness and psychological self-care behavior.
The learned resourcefulness theory ofRosenbaum (1983, 1990) was used as a conceptual framework of the study.
The subjects consisted of 110patients with coronary artery disease receiving medical care at the Outpatient Department, Chest DiseaseInstitute, Nonthaburi Province from October to November 2004.
Data were collected by means of interviewsbased on the demographic characteristic questionnaire, self-control schedule, and psychological self-carebehavior questionnaire.
Data analysis included descriptive statistics and Pearson's Product Moment Correlation.
The finding coefficient revealed that education level is the only factor that had a positive correlation withlearned resourcefulness at the moderate level (r = 0.36; p < 0.01) and with psychological self-care behaviorat the low level (r = 0.21; p < 0.05).
Learned resourcefulness had positive correlation with psychologicalself-care behavior at a fairly high level (r = 0.59; p < 0.01).
Based on these findings, it is recommended that nurses should seek strategies for promote learnedresourcefulness, leading to psychological self care behavior.
Moreover, there should be a nursing service thatenhances learned resourcefulness and psychological self-care behavior in patients with coronary artery diseasewho are educated at a low level.
This study aimed to develop a clinical nursing practice guideline for discharge planning in patients withstroke during transition period from hospital to home.
The process to develop the clinical nursing practiceguideline was based on the Evidence Based Practice Model.
The evidence from research was used to develop the clinical nursing practice guideline.
The eight research studies were classified as the level A = 3 studies, level B = 3 studies, level C = 1 study,and level D = 1 study.
The element of the clinical nursing practice guideline for discharge planning in patients with stroke had sixsteps.
Five steps were prepared patients and families in hospital and the last step was for continuous care at home.
The clinical nursing practice guideline was validated for content validity, readability, and clarity by three healthcare providers.
The clinical nursing practice guideline in this study should be piloted for testing the applicability.
Outcomeresearch is also recommended to strongly support the evidence.
Renal transplantation is currently recognized as the best method of treatment for end-stage renal disease patientsand can enhance the patients' quality of life.
However, the most common problems in post renal transplantationpatients are infection and renal rejection.
These causes may be due to a patient's pathology or incorrect self-carepractice after renal transplantation.
These problems adversely affect the quality of life in physical, psychological,emotional, and social aspects.
Therefore, nurses need to be aware of the importance of self-care ability developmentin renal transplantation patients under the discharge phase.
This study aimed to develop Clinical Nursing Practice Guidelines (CNPG) for self-care ability development in renaltransplantation patients in the discharge phase who had end-stage renal disease and were treated by renal transplantation.
The study group was adult patients, both male and female, more than 15 years old, and who were treated at the Facultyof Medicine, Ramathibodi Hospital, Mahidol University.
The study was done by conducting analysis and synthesisof 12 research literatures together with 11 articles, and by adopting a supportive-educative nursing system as statedin Orem's nursing concept of practice.
This CNPG consists of four steps of development:
1) nurses build a goodrelationship with patient and patient's relatives;
2) nurses perform the first evaluation of patient's knowledge;
3) nurseseducate patient and patient's relatives; and
4) nurses perform the second evaluation of patient's knowledge.
The guideline was validated by professional nurses for correctness, content coverage, and clinical practicality.
In conclusion, the professional nurses' opinion revealed that the practical guidelines for self-care ability developmentin renal transplantation patients under the discharge phase are clinically practicable.
The purpose of this study was to compare the learning achievement on self-care of hypertensive patients between agenda setting group process and non-agenda setting group process.
The population of investigation was the hypertensive patients attending for service at Khon Kaen Regional Hospital.
The sample was 100 hypertensive patients randomly selected from hypertensive patients who attended for service at Khon Kaen Regional Hospital during October-November,1997.
The first group learned from agenda setting group process, while the second group learned from non-agenda setting group process.
The instrument ata collection was pre and post test.
T-test method was used in data analysis.
Research findings were as follows:
1. The different of learning achievement on self-care of hypertensive patients between those engaging in agenda setting group process and non-agenda setting group process was not significantly at the .05 level.
2. The posttest scores of hypertensive patients on self-care engaging in both groups were significantly higher than the pretest scores at the .05 level.
The purpose of this quasi-experimental study was to determine the effectiveness of a health education program which applied Self-Efficacy Theory on self-care among cerebrovascular patients attending services at Bangkok Metropolitan Administration Medical College and Vajira Hospital.
The sample group consisted of SO patients who participated in the designated program activities three times.
The program concentrated on developing knowledge on cerebrovascular disease, improving self-esteem, perceived self-efficacy, outcome expectation, and self-care practice.
An interview was used for data collection which was conducted from September 2001 to December 2001.
Statistical analysis was performed using frequency, mean, percentage, standard deviation and paired samples t-test.
The results of this study revealed that after the program, the experimental group had significantly better knowledge, self=esteem, perceived self-efficacy, outcome expectation, and self-care practice of relaxation than before the program.
The mean score had increased for exercise and taking medicine, but it was not a significant difference.
Diabetes mellitus is a non-communicable disease that is an important public health problem in many countries.
Diabetic patients, who have no self-control in food consumption, physical exercise and use of medication may have complications.
This study was a quasi-experimental research with the main objective to assess the effectiveness of a health education program for blood glucose control of type 2 diabetic patients.
The research applied Self-control and Self-efficacy based on Social Cognitive Theory.
The sample of the study consisted of 38 diabetic patients in the experimental group and 35 diabetic patients in the comparison group.
Four sessions of the health education program were organized over a period of three months.
The activities of the program were group discussions, brain storming, sharing diabetic knowledge, situation analysis, providing models, practicing skills in choosing menus and physical exercise, planning and recording in a logbook, and providing information by letter three times.
Data were collected before and after the experiment by interviews.
The statistical analysis was done using percentage, Independent t-test, Paired t-test, Mann-Whitney U test, Wilcoxon Signs Ranks Test and Repeated Measurement One way ANOVA.
Results showed that after implementing the program, the experimental group had a significant increase in knowledge about diabetes mellitus, self-efficacy in dietary control, physical exercise, and taking medication and in the self-control process of identifying opportunities for self-monitoring, goal setting, problem solving, and self-reward.
In addition, after the experiment, the experimental group had a statistically decreased HbA(,lc) and capillary blood glucose levels than before the experiment.
The findings from this study indicated that a health education program could positively improve knowledge, self-efficacy and self-control.
Therefore, this program should be applied to diabetic patients in other hospitals.
Although most societies accept patients rights, societies are rarely asked for their implementation, especially in the case of sick prisoners.
The objective of this research was to examine whether the services provided to patients in the Correctional Hospital were performed with respect for the patients rights.
The study combined descriptive, survey and qualitative design (phenomenology as naturalistic inquiry).
The sample was composed of professional nurses in the inpatient department and sick prisoners treated in the inpatient wards between March 2001 and May 2001.
Observations were made on treatments with respect for the patients rights and the nursing services mistakes.
The nurses perception was measured on operational processes, practice concerning patients rights and input factors, such as, manpower, the amount of equipment and drugs that affected the nursing operations.
The data were analyzed by using percentage, mean, Pearsons correlation coefcient, Chi-square, and content analysis was conducted for qualitative data.
It was found that the overall patients satisfaction regarding treatments with respect for the patients rights was at a high level by prisoners perceptions.
Similarly, professional nurses perception and individual treatments with respect for the patients rights were at a high level.
There was no correlation between the nurses perceptions and the treatments with respect for the patients rights.
Nursing process was not obviously identified as it should be.
Moreover, lack of manpower and lack of follow-up and evaluation of the helpers performance resulted in services mistakes.
The qualitative approach showed that keeping the patients information confidential, terminal patient and emergency patient management, as well as preventing any nursing services mistakes, needed to be improved.
It is recommended that the health team should determine policies and operational standards of respect for patients rights.
This would result in health service quality for prisoners in the future.
The purpose of this study, a randomized clinical trial design, was to test the effects of a self-care promotion program on quality of life and reduction of risk factors for coronary disease patients.
The population of the study was patients with coronary heart disease who were followed-up at the King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital from May to December 2002.
Thirty-four patients who met the inclusion criteria were randomly assigned to the experimental or control group.
The self-care promotion program was developed by using Orems nursing theory and Ornishs heart disease reversal program as a conceptual framework.
The control group received usual care whereas the experimental group received usual care plus the self-care promotion program.
Changes in body weight, low-density lipoprotein (LDL), and quality of life from baseline and at 4 months follow-up of the control group were compared with the experimental group.
Quality of Life Index-Cardiac version IV (Ferrans & Power, 1998) was used for measuring quality of life.
Reliability of the instrument tested by use of Cronbachs coefficients a was .79.
The results revealed that the mean body weight in the experimental group decreased significantly compared with the control group (p<.05).
LDL and quality of life remained unchanged (p> .05).
These findings suggest that an educational class for knowledge and training in self-care for who are reduction of risk factors as well as continued supportive measures can assist patients who are overweight or obese to reduce their body weight within 4 months.
The purposes of this descriptive research were
1) to determine the relationships between self-care agency in each dimension: dietary control, exercise, medication management, self-evaluation and prevention of hypo-hyperglycemia, hygiene care and foot care, and stress management and diabetic control
2) to predict diabetic control from each dimension of self-care agency in type 2 diabetic patients.
Purposive sampling was used to select 123 patients from the Diabetic clinic, Banpong Hospital, Ratchaburi Province.
The following instruments were used to collect the data: demographic data, self-care agency in each dimension and glycemic goal was glycosylated hemoglobin.
Descriptive statistics, Pearson product moment correlation coefficient, and Stepwise Multiple Regression Analysis were used for data analysis.
The results of this study revealed that there was no statistically significant relationship between self-care agency in each dimension: dietary control, exercise, medication management, self-evaluation and prevention of hypo-hyperglycemia, hygiene care and foot care, and stress management and diabetic control.
So the results revealed that each dimension of self-care agency could not predict diabetic control.
The results of this study are incompatible with theory and inconsistent with previous studies.
The subjects there were the sense of overestimating their self-care agency and all of them were in the adult group with the expectation of a desired outcome, so they may responded to the questionnaire with socially desirable answers.
Standardized diabetic education program, teaching package, and the knowledge of healthcare provider are necessary to improve diabetic control.
In rehabilitation of post TKA patients, it is important to promote muscle strength, as well as a range of knee joint motion exercises to help with the prevention of joint stiffness and instability after surgery.
Pain encountered by patients during exercise in a rehabilitation period is one of the worst experiences.
However, nurses are expected to use nursing care and available proven techniques to lessen the level of pain during exercises such as massage.
The purpose of this study was to study the effect of massage on pain in patients undergoing rehabilitation after total knee arthroplasty.
The 30 eligible TKA patients from Siriraj Hospital were selected according to the inclusion criteria of the study.
Simple crossover design was used for this study.
All subjects were alternately placed in either the experimental group or the control group.
The experimental group received massage intervention on either the fifth or sixth postoperative day, and before the commencement of exercise.
The control group did not receive massage intervention.
Pain intensity was evaluated before and after exercise in both the control and experimental groups.
A comparison of pain scores between the two groups was analyzed by ANOVA for simple crossover design.
The results of this study indicated that pain intensity in TKA patients undergoing rehabilitation after receiving massage was statistically significantly lower than those who did not receive massage (P < .001).
Moreover, most subjects (76%) who received massage were most satisfied with massage, and 93% of treatment subjects reported that they felt comfortable after massage, with 90% experiencing relaxation after massage.
The results also suggest that nurses can use massage as complementary therapy for the relief of mild to moderate pain on either the fifth or sixth postoperative days with TKA patients.
Furthermore, nurses may introduce massage intervention for a self-care approach in decreasing pain within the home environment for this patient population.
Leukemia is a chronic life- threatening disease.
With regard to the disease, symptoms and side effects from chemotherapy, patients should be equipped and prepared to act properly and constantly for self-care.
This quasi-experimental research aims to study the effect of the supportive nursing care on knowledge and self-care behavior in leukemic patients undergoing chemotherapy.
The samples were 30 purposively selected leukemic patients undergoing chemotherapy who were admitted to Asadang Department, Siriraj Hospital from May to November 2001.
The participants were divided into an experimental group and control group with fifteen cases in each.
The experimental group received supportive nursing care which consisted of assessing patients problems, discussing and collaborating in solving problems, providing education, self-care handbook together with four days of continued visitation.
The control group received routine nursing care and the self-care handbook.
Both groups were interviewed on the their knowledge and self-care behavior in a pretest and a posttest on the sixth day after the intervention.
Data analysis used inferential statistics for percentage, mean score, Wilcoxon sign rank test, and Mann-Whitney U test.
The research results found that there were no differences between the experimental group and the control group in their age, sex, and education level.
After intervention, the experimental group had significantly higher average score on the knowledge and self-care behavior than before intervention .
The experimental group had significantly higher average score on their knowledge and self-care behavior than control group.
The research results suggest that supportive nursing care should be used to promote self-care in leukemic patients undergoing chemotherapy by providing knowledge together with media and self-care handbook.
Continuous visiting in order to assess patients knowledge and self-care behaviors should also implemented.
Constipation is a common problem that may lead to dangerous complications in neurological patients.
Knowledge and comprehensive skills to prevent and manipulate constipation are considered as essential nurses responsibilities.
This study aimed to survey nursing activities for the prevention and manipulation of constipation in neurological patients.
One hundred professional nurses from King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital and Taksin Hospital who had experiences in caring for neurological patients of at least six months were included in this study.
The data were collected by utilizing questionnaires developed by the investigator.
Participants in this study were 100 female nurses whose ages ranged from 22-51 years ((X) = 29.51, S.D = 6.25).
Most of them had more than five years experiences in caring for neurological patients.
But very few had experiences in training for prevention or manipulating of constipation.
The results revealed that the most common issues in nursing activities for prevention and manipulating of constipation were diagnosis for constipation by inspection, palpation, percussion, auscultation, and digital anal stimulation.
Twentyfour to Forty-five percentages of nurses regularly assessed basic information on patients defecation.
The majority of nurses regularly assessed the risks for constipation, except for characteristics of diet intake.
In preventing constipation, only 34% regularly advised the relatives to provide patients with high fiber diet.
Lastly, the majority of nurses manipulated the constipation regularly (49-79%) but no nurse reported the use of digital anal stimulation.
From the findings of this study, it is recommended that there should be a development of a practical nursing standard in preventing and manipulating constipation in neurological patients.
An enhancement of nursing skills in physical examination for constipation diagnosis, as well as the nursing intervention to prevent and manipulate constipation among neurological patients should be emphasized.
The purpose of this survey research was to study the nurses level of knowledge of patients rights, the level of awareness of patients rights, the level of caring for terminally ill patients and the relationship between knowledge of patients rights, awareness of patients rights and caring for terminally ill patients among these nurses.
Concept of patients rights and Watsons Theory of Transpersonal Caring were used as a framework for the study.
The sample consisted of 143 nurses who were working in the medicine, surgical, orthopedic, gyne and EENT wards at the Faculty of Medicine Ramathibodi Hospital, selected by purposive sampling.
A self administered questionnaire was used to collect the data to measure the nurses knowledge of patients rights, awareness of patients rights and caring for terminally ill patients.
The reliability of this tool was 0.52, 0.86 and 0.96.
The statistical methods used in data analysis were frequencies, percentage, range, arithmetic mean, standard deviation and Pearson Product Moment Correlation Coefficient.
Result of the study showed that the knowledge of patients rights was at a high level (78.3%), awareness of patients rights was at a high level (97.9%) and caring for terminally ill patients was at a high level (50.3%).
The Pearson Correlation Coefficient analysis showed no significant correlations between the nurses knowledge of patients rights and nurses caring for terminally ill patients.
Awareness of patients rights and caring for terminally ill patients were significantly correlated in a positive way at a middle level
It is recommended that nurses caring for terminally ill patients should be at a high level.
Nurses should be trained in effective care of tenninally ill patients and, the standard method of tenninally ill patient advocacy.
There should be programs about the knowledge of patients rights.
Awareness of patients rights should be promoted so that nurses feel comfortable and willing to care for patients with patients rights in mind.
The purposes of this case study were to describe nausea and vomiting experiences, and nausea and vomiting management strategies in cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy.
The conceptual framework of the study was a model of Symptom Management.
Purposive sampling was used to select hospitalized cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy admitted over 2 days at Ramathibodi Hospital, during January through March, 2000.
The instrument used for data collection was an interview questionnaire for nausea and vomiting.
The data was presented by the individuals and summarized.
Content analysis was used for analyzing the data.
The study found that the perceptions of nausea and vomiting were dizziness, abdominal discomfort, chest discomfort, increased salivation, and ultimately nausea and vomiting.
The evaluation of nausea and vomiting found that the major factor stimulating nausea and vomiting was smell of food, and the symptoms of nausea and vomiting were most severe on day 1 after undergoing chemotherapy and slightly decreasing on days 2 through 7.
The symptom of nausea and vomiting effected both physiological and psychological responses, such as feeling of weakness, and distress.
The nausea and vomiting management used most often by the patients was cleaning the mouth with normal saline.
Family members often responded to nausea and vomiting by giving encouragement, eg.
talking and touching softly, whereas nurses often responded to nausea and vomiting by giving antiemetic drugs.
As for the outcome of nausea and vomiting management, a very effective method for the patient was reducing activities, being given encouragement from family members and being given antiemetic drugs from nurses.
The results support the model of Symptom Management of Larson, et al.
and can be used as information and guidance for nursing intervention.
Sleep is a fundamental need of human beings, especially in hospitalized heart failure patients.
There are various stimuli that disturb their sleep quality.
Uncertainty in illness as an internal stimulus and event familiarities consisting of nursing activities, noises and light as external stimuli were studied in this study.
These stimuli may be related to sleep quality.
The results of this study should act as a guide to improve nursing management, quality of sleep, and eventually, quality of life.
The objectives of this descriptive study are to describe quality of sleep, uncertainty in illness, and event familiarities and to examine the relationships between these variables and sleep quality in hospitalized heart failure patients.
The Mishel Uncertainty in Illness Theory was used as a framework for this study.
The samples were 120 hospitalized heart failure patients admitted to medical wards of Assadang Building, Siriraj Hospital.
All patients were interviewed by the researcher using questionnaires to ascertain demographic data, sleep quality, modified uncertainty in illness, and event familiarities.
Data were analyzed by using frequency, percentages mean, standard deviation, range, and Pearsons Product Moment Correlation coefficient.
The results of this study showed that sleep quality of the hospitalized heart failure patients was at a moderate level.
They reported more uncertainty in illness.
They also agreed that event familiarities disturbed their sleep quality.
Uncertainty in illness, ambiguity, event familiarities, noises and lights were negatively correlated to sleep quality
Complexity, inconsistency of information, unpredictability and nursing activities were also negatively related to sleep quality in hospitalized heart failure patients .
The results from this study could be used as a guideline for nurses and healthcare providers assessing uncertainty in illness and event familiarities in hospitalized heart failure patients to minimize uncertainty so they can promote rest and sleep.
An appropriate environment should be created for the patient.
Finally, the results could also be useful in planning and educating patients to cope with illness in order to enhance their quality of life.
Essential hypertension is a chronic illness that causes serious health problems.
It is found in patients who have inappropriate lifestyle patterns.
Treatment helps the patients to survive longer but they have to take life long medication and they must follow appropriate health-promoting behaviors (HPB).
The purpose of this research was to study HPB and factors related to HPB, which are the cause of inappropriate health practices.
The investigator modified Green & Kreuters theory which according to the PRECEDE Framework includes three main factors.
First, predisposing factors include knowledge about essential hypertension and attitudes toward HPB.
Enabling factors are the places and equipment used to facilitate HPB.
Finally, reinforcing factors consist of the positive reinforcing behaviors from significant people such as attention, support and encouragement.
The subjects of this study were 120 patients with essential hypertension at Bangkok Metropolitan Medical College and Vajira Hospital who were recruited from an eligible population.
Data were analyzed by percentage, mean, standard deviation and Pearsons Product Moment Correlation Coefficient analysis.
The results showed that the overall HPB of the subjects were appropriate behaviors .
There was a positive significant correlation between the overall HPB and the overall attitude to HPB .
The overall HPB showed a positive significant correlation with both the place and equipment used to facilitate these behaviors  respectively.
These results suggested that nurses should study about methods to promote attitudes to promote HPB for patients.
1n addition health care providers should provide a place and equipment to facilitate appropriate HPB to occur.
Schizophrenia, a chronic and pervasive mental disorder, ranks first among all psychotic disorders.
Due to personality deterioration, patients can not function well in their families and societies.
Therefore, family members involved in caring for these patients may suffer from stress.
The purpose of this study is to identify situations that cause stress, the nature and degrees of stress symptoms, and the ways in which these caregivers try to cope with stress.
The sample population consisted of 260 caregivers who brought schizophrenic patients to Siriraj Hospital, Srithanya Hospital and Somdej-Chaophraya Hospital between 26 March and 31 August 1998.
The results of the study show that the most stressful situation is experienced in a situation where caregivers have to cope with a patient who does harm to others.
But less stressful situations such as financial burden for living expense, and medical expenses were always found.
Many caregivers experience stress on a mild level.
Stress symptoms may be physical, emotional or spiritual.
They may relate to cognitive and social behavior.
Coping aims at solving problems or situations and reduce suffering.
In conclusion the study suggested that nurses should be aware of the importance of schizophrenic caregivers.
The nurses role should be extended to also help the caregivers with techniques such as psychoeducation, counselling, advice and support in order to reduce their stress and cope with stress appropriately.
Pulmonary Tuberculosis is an epidemic and chronic disease which affects people, physically, mentally, socially and emotionally.
This is because the patients have to face many symptoms such as dypsnea, hemoptysis and chest pain, all of which can be more severe in accordance with the condition of the disease.
The problem has- a direct impact with the happiness and the way of life of the patients, and that means the correct and continuous self care is very important.
The purpose of this research was to study the perceived self-efficacy and the self care behavior of the 150 pulmonary tuberculosis patients being treated at the OPD Division of The Tuberculosis Division, Department of Communicable Disease Control.
The researcher collected the data by a personal data form, a perceived self-efficacy inventory and a self care behavior inventory between May 1999 to July 1999.
Percentage, mean, standard deviation, The Pearsons product moment correlation coefficient, multiple correlation coefficient and stepwise multiple regression were used for data analysis.
It was found that the mean score of total perceived self efficacy was in the high level and self care behavior of the pulmonary tuberculosis patients was in a good level .
Perceived self-efficacy had a positive relationship with the self care behavior of the pulmonary tuberculosis patients at a statistically significant level .
The education level had a positive relationship with the self care behavior and the perceived self-efficacy at a statistically significant level .
Age had a negative relationship with the perceived self-efficacy and the self care behavior at a statistically significant level  respectively.
From the analysis using the stepwise multiple regression technique, it was found that the perceived self-efficacy and the education level could predict the self care behavior of the pulmonary tuberculosis patients by 66 percent.
The researcher recommended that in nursing, the nurses have to realize and encourage the patients to have properly perceived self-efficacy that will bring the motivation to develop appropriate and continuous self care.
Weakness in respiratory muscles results in decreased lung volume, impaired ability to cough, as well as restriction in bed, all of which are risk factors for development of pneumonia and atelectasis, the major cause of mortality in patients with acute spinal cord injury.
A quasi-experimental two-group design was used to determine the effects of pulmonary rehabilitation nursing on pulmonary function and respiratory complications between the control group and the experimental group.
The twenty subjects in this study were traumatic spinal cord injury ranging between C(,4) - T(,12), admitted within 8 weeks of post injury at Maharaj Nakhonratchasima Hospital.
Ten matched pair subjects were assigned to the experimental and the control group, based on matching criteria.
Each subject participated in this study throughout a four week period.
The experimental group participated in pulmonary rehabilitation nursing program including: positioning, oral fluid intake, deep breathing exercise, and manually-assisted cough.
The control group received routine care from staff nurses and other health care teams as usual.
Data collected included demographic characteristics, medical histories, pulmonary function test, and respiratory complications.
Pulmonary function was evaluated by measurement of the vital capacity (VC) using a spirometer.
This was obtained at the beginning, and then repeated weekly in each subject.
Respiratory complications including atelectasis and pneumonia, were assessed daily by physicians and researcher, using diagnostic criteria to determine these complications.
Comparative pulmonary function between the two groups was determined at the end of the 1(st), 2(nd) , 3(rd) and 4th week by the Mann-Witney U test.
The incidence of respiratory complications in both groups was described.
Comparative respiratory complications between two groups were tested by the Fishers Exact test.
The majority of subjects were male, with a mean age of 38.2 years.
There were more low level quadriplegic (70%) with a 60% of complete cord lesion.
The results showed that there were no significant difference of the vital capacity between the two groups, which were measured at the end of the 1(st), 2(nd), 3(rd) week.
The vital capacity of the experimental group were significantly greater than those in the control group when measure at the end of the fourth week .
Two subjects in the control group and only one in the experimental group developed respiratory complications.
However, there was no significant difference between the two groups .
These findings suggest that pulmonary rehabilitation nursing may improve pulmonary function whenever this intervention is provided for a sufficient time.
Further research should be undertaken in the various areas with a larger sample size.
This was a quasi experimental research on the application of supportive group therapy to reduce stress and coping behavior of caregivers of psychiatric patients.
The sixteen samples were psychiatric patient caregivers who took patients to receive treatment at Prasert Kangsadalya 5, Psychiatric Unit, Siriraj Hospital.
The samples were selected using a purposive sampling basis.
They were divided into two groups by a Simple Random Sampling - experimental and control group, each of which consisting 8 of samples.
The control group received guidelines and assistance similar to other caregivers taking patients to the hospital.
The experimental group participated in a supportive group therapy program organized by researchers twice a week for 4 weeks.
Each meeting in the program one to one and a half hours.
The information gathered was then used to provide descriptive analysis and t - test statistical analysis.
The threshold of statistical significance was at 0.05.
The findings of the study showed that:
After participating in the supportive group therapy program,
1) the subjects in the experimental group had lower levels of stress than they did before.
2) the subjects in the experimental group had lower levels of stress than those in the control group.
3) the subjects in the experimental group had a higher mean score for coping behavior than they did before.
4)the subjects in the experimental group had had a higher mean score for coping behavior than those in the control group.
Recommendations This study has shown that the supportive group therapy is a good social support helping caregivers of psychiatric patients to cope with problem arising from tending to their patients based on information and support from one another in the group.
Therefore, its appropriate to recommend continuation of the supportive group therapy for caregivers of psychiatric patients and difference group of caregivers.
Furthermore, nursing staff and the health personnel involved should be received thorough training in assessment technique, knowledges and skills.
The purposes of this descriptive study were to find out needs and response to needs of family members of critically ill patients and who responds to the needs of these family members.
The study was conducted in the Medical and Surgical Intensive Care unit at Thammasart Chalermprakiat Hospital during the period of December, 1999 to March, 2000.
The 50 purposive samples of family members consisted of father / mother / spouse / children of the critically ill patients.
The questionnaire was outlined to serve the purpose of this study by applying knowledge from the related literature and Molters Critical Care Family Need Inventory (CCFNI).
Their reliability was tested by Cronbachs Alpha Coefficient which was 0.76.
The data were analyzed by computer using the SPSS / PC.
The results of this study showed the most important needs were to release anxiety, secondly to obtain information, and personal needs were the least important need Firstly most of the needs that were responded to of that the family members of critically ill patients were the need to release anxiety, secondly, the need of information and the least were personal needs.
Persons who mostly responded to the needs of family members of critically ill patients were nurses (88%).
The investigator recommends that nurses use results of this study as a guideline to fully respond to the real needs of the family members of critically ill patients especially the need to release anxiety, need of information, and need to be with the patients and participate in caring for the pattern.
Lastly the nurses should have a care plan according to the real needs required by the family members of critically ill patients.
This study examines the level of activity of patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) during the first six weeks after they were discharged, and the correlation between the level of activity and physical conditions, personal factors and social support.
The subjects were 30 AMI patients who had been discharged from Siriraj Hospital and Ramathibodi Hospital.
Data were collected by interview and questionnaire comprising patients health history, the level of activity after discharge and demographic data.
The data were collected in hospitals prior to discharge and on the first, third, and sixth week following discharge from hospital.
Frequency distribution, percentage, arithmetic mean, standard deviation, t-test and chi-square test were used to analyze the data.
The findings revealed that none of the AMI patients had followed the recommended daily activity during the six weeks after discharge.
They were at risk to have recurrent infarction in the first (80%) and third (96.6%) week following discharge.
In the sixth week after discharge, they were at risk to have de-conditioning effects (86.7%).
Age and social support were significantly associated with activity in the first week after discharge .
Whereas, at the sixth week after discharge, gender was significantly associated with activity .
These findings suggest that after discharge, activity at home may improve or deteriorate the health of patients.
Nurses and health care teams should provide accurate and clear information about appropriate activities for AMI patients after hospital discharge.
The information should be based on the knowledge of patients environment, residence, and their social support.
Moreover, nurses should be sensitized to the difference between recovery activities and daily activity of working and retired patients as well as female patients.
The purpose of this cross-sectional survey research was to investigate the relationships between nurses job characteristics, job empowerment and nursing practice of professional nurses to protect patients rights.
The research population consisted of 1,771 professional nurses in Siriraj Hospital for the fiscal year 1998.
Data collection was conducted by sending questionnaires to the Nursing Department.
A total of 1,687 completed questionnaires (95.25%) were received for analysis.
The results revealed that the nursing practice of professional nurses to protect patients rights was at a good level.
Nurses job characteristics and job empowerment were at a good level and a fair level respectively.
By using Pearsons Product Moment Correlation Coefficient to analyze the relationships, it was found that there were positive relationships at the 0.05 statistical significance level between nurses job characteristics, job empowerment and the nursing practice.
Moreover, concerning controlled variables job position/department) by using Multiple Regression Analysis it was found that the relationships between independent variables and dependent variables from research were real relations .
This research suggested that the plan for the nursing practice to protect patients right should be set up with clear policy and the administrators should improve nurses job characteristics.
Futher more, the plan should provide enough empowerment to protect patients rights thereby building incentive and confidence of the professional nurses in effective nursing practice to protect patients rights in Siriraj Hospital.
Because off social changes and advancement in medical technology, especially application of technology in health care systems, ethical dilemmas in caring for terminally ill patients may occure.
The purpose of this study was to identify ethical dilemmas in the case of terminally ill patients, concerning veracity, truth telling, prolongation of life, euthanasia and hospice care.
The conceptual framework is base on ethical theories and Buddhist ethics.
The result of study indicated that, in western culture, moral judgment is based on deontological, teleological, duties-based and right-based theories, while moral judgment in Thai society is similar to that in western culture, but is also concerned with Buddhist ethics.
In addition, some physicians and nurses perspective, moral judgment involves a patients situation, so Buddhist ethics and individual intuition are also employed.
The purpose of this quasi experimental research is to determine the effects of EMG biofeedback and progressive muscle relaxation on anxiety, perceived self efficacy to control dyspnea, exercise tolerance and lung function in COPD patients.
Thirty COPD patients from Central Chest Hospital were purposely selected for this study.
The sample was divided equally into two groups by matching sex, age and fev.
The fifteen patients assigned as the experimental group were trained by the investigator in EMG biofeedback and progressive muscle relaxation twice a week for 4 weeks.
The patients also practiced muscle relaxation by themselves every day.
The control group received routine care.
Results of the study indicate that after 4 weeks the experimental group had significantly decreased their anxiety and dyspnea.
They increased their self efficacy to control dyspnea, exercise tolerance and lung function  respectively .
The result of the study suggests that nurses should integrate EMG biofeedback and progressive muscle relaxation into nursing therapeutics which would improve dyspnea in COPD patients.
Cerebrovascular disease is one of chronic illnesses that causes disability and self-care deficits in its patients.
Consequently, families have become the primary caregivers for their chronically ill members.
Relatives as caregiving.
bear a significant burden in the area of family activities and leisure as a result of their continuing caregiving.
They also experience a high level of stress and need professional help in decreasing such a burden.
This study aims to investigate the needs of relatives as caregiving of patients with cerebrovascular disease, and identify factors that predict their needs.
This study was a descriptive research.
The sample was composed of 120 relatives of patients with cerebrovascular disease.
The instruments included demographic data and cerebrovascular disease needs.
Data were analyzed by using mean, standard deviation, Pearson s Product Moment Correlation, and stepwise multiple regression.
The finding of this research shows that the overall mean score and the mean scores of each section of cerebrovascular disease caregivers needs were in a middle level.
The sections of the cerebrovascular disease caregiver s need included spiritual, psychological, household management, physical, financial and material and information needs.
Social dependency of patient was a significant predictor of the caregiver s need .
The results suggest that physicians and nurses working with patients with cerebrovascular disease should educate family members to understand the spiritual and psychological needs of the primary caregivers, and encourage the patients to improve their functioning.
The data of this research were collected by using questionnaires on 106 Forensic Psychiatric patients at Nitijitavej Hospital, whose crimes were affected by their perception of the news from mass media.
The results of the research are as follow.
1.Forensic Psychiatric patients who had never been arrested or had been under arrest only once would be more likely to make an assualt on victims than those who had been under arrest 2-4 times.
2.Forensic Psychiatric patients who had never been arrested would commit crimes in remote areas whereas those who had been under arrest 1-4 times would tend to commit crimes in public crowded areas.
3.Forensic Psychiatric patients who had never gone under psychiatric treatments or those had received 1-2 treatments would be more likely to make an assualt on victims than those who had been treated 3-7 times.
4.Forensic Psychiatric patients who get news from printed documents would commit crimes mostly at night, but the patients who learned models from television, movies, videos, and video games would commit crimes mostly in the evening, while those who learned to know the criminal cases from radio would commit crimes mostly during the day time.
The purpose of this cross-sectional, survey research was to study the food consumption behavior of coronary heart disease patients and the patients demographic (sex, age, income, education) and psychosocial (perception of heart disease, values concerning fatty food consumption, family support) factors that influence fatty food consumption behavior.
The sample consisted of 240 coronary heart disease patients in the heart disease clinic of Pramongkutklao Hospital.
Data were collected through the administration of interviews that were developed by the researcher and data were analyzed, using the SPSS/PC+ program, in terms of frequencies, percentages, arithmetic means, standard t - scores, Pearsons Product Moment Correlation coefficients and multiple regression analysis.
The results of this study showed that the majority of coronary heart disease patients decreased fatty foods consumption behavior but that they still engaged in behavior that puts them at risk of increasing their cholesterol levels (e.g., ingesting fried, deep fried and noodle - based foods).
Approximately half of the subjects reported consuming foods on social occasions that negatively affected their health (fatty foods, alcohol and soft drinks).
Psychosocial factors (values concerning fatty food consumption (+,b)= 0.6) and family support (+,b)=-1.2)) accounted for 42.1% of variance of fatty food consumption behavior among the subjects .
Because off social changes and advancement in medical technology, especially application of technology in health care systems, ethical dilemmas in caring for terminally ill patients may occure.
The purpose of this study was to identify ethical dilemmas in the case of terminally ill patients, concerning veracity, truth telling, prolongation of life, euthanasia and hospice care.
The conceptual framework is base on ethical theories and Buddhist ethics.
The result of study indicated that, in western culture, moral judgment is based on deontological, teleological, duties-based and right-based theories, while moral judgment in Thai society is similar to that in western culture, but is also concerned with Buddhist ethics.
In addition, some physicians and nurses perspective, moral judgment involves a patients situation, so Buddhist ethics and individual intuition are also employed.
This descriptive research was designed to compare functional abilities in activities of daily living (ADL) among stroke patients after 2 weeks of onset or before discharge and 3 months after onset and to study relationship between age, gender, marital status, level of conscious upon admission, and the time from onset to treatment and functional abilities in ADL.
The self-care agency concept in Orems nursing theory was used to guide the study.
The sample consisted of 80 new stroke patients who were admitted in Ramathibodi hospital and Prasat Neurological Institute during January and May 1999.
The data was collected by observing and interviewing the subjects and / or relatives.
Functional abilities in ADL were evaluated on 2 weeks and 3 months after onset by using the Barthel Index.
Results of the study reveal that there are statistically significant differences between functional abilities in ADL after 2 weeks and 3 months of onset.
Gender and level of conscious upon admission are statistically significant related to functional abilities in ADL after 3 months of onset . There are no statistically, significant relationship between age, marital status, and the time from onset to treatment and functional abilities in ADL after 3 months of onset .
These results will contribute to provide nursing care program with the aim to enhance functional recovery as much as possible.
The objective of this study is to estimate prevalence of pathological gambling and related factors in amphetamine dependence patients at Thanyarak.
The samples are 140 amphetamine abusers randomly selected from Thayarak Institute.
Pathological gambling were diagnosed based on information form structured interview using DSM-4 criteria.
Statistics used in the analysis are Descriptive Statistics and Inferential Statistics.
The prevalence of pathological gambling in amphetamine dependence patients at Thanyarak Institute is 24.30% (35.70% of male, 12.90% of female).
Male had higher prevalence than female, other demographic factors are not related to having Pahological Gambling in the sample.
Factors that related to having pathological gambling are ever have history of probation or voluntarily suspended during school years, parent marital status, and having friends who gamble.
This quasi-experimental research using modified Self-Efficacy Theory with significant others was designed to improve behaviors among non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus patients about diet control, exercise and taking medicine.
The experimental group comprised 40 patients while the comparison group was 39.
Data were collected using interview questionnaires and blood sugar (HbA,(1c)).
Frequency distribution, arithmetic mean, standard deviation, studentss t-test and paired samples t-test were utilized to analyse data.
The results of the study reveal that after the experiment the experimental group had siginificantly better knowledge, perceived self-efficacy and practice than prior to the experiment and than the comparison group.
Outcome expectation did not differ.
Furthermore, at the end of experiment, blood sugar (HbA(,1c)) of the experimental group was significantly lower than prior to the experiment and than the comparison group.
The objective of this research was to assess the effectiveness of health education program for blood sugar level control by applying Self -Efficacy Theory and Health Belief Model with group activities.
The study sample was non - insulin dependent diabetes mellitus patients who attended Sakolnakorn Hospital during October 1997 to March 1998 by dever randomly selected into the experimental group and the comparison group.
The experimental group comprised 48 patients while the comparison group was 50.
The experimental group received the health education program by group activities 3 times at 1 month intervals while the comparison group received the regular health education program.
The data was collected by interview questionaires and record forms.
Frequencies, percentages, arithmetic mean, standard deviation, students t-test, paired sample t-test were applied to analyse the data.
The results of this study show that the experimental group gained a statistically higher level of knowledge and practice about Diabetes, the perceived susceptibility and severity to complication, the Self- Efficacy, the practice response efficacy and the practiceness than before experimentation and more than those of the comparison group.
In addition, in the experimental group, the fasting blood sugar was decreased at the end of the program and rated significantly lower than those in the comparison group.
Regarding these findings, it is recommended that the health education program leading to improved blood sugar level should be implemented.
The program should be appied to other chronic disease patients.
The complication of diabetes millitus is a chronic condition which deteriorates pateints health, and can lead to death.
Cardiovascular disease is an important cause of death in diabetes millitus.
It can be prevented through extensive changes in the pateints lifestyle concerning self-care behavior.
The objective of this quasi-experiment research is to assess the effectiveness of a health education program by applying Rogers Protection Motivation Theory in the prevention of coronary heart disease in diabetes millitus patients.
The study group consisted of females who attended the diabetes mellitus clinic at Udonthani Hospital.
This group represents the group at risk for high blood sugar and/or high cholesterol.
The group was divided into two groups, 40 in each.
One group, the experimental group, participated in the 12 week health education program.
The other group was the comparison group.
The data were collected by interview questionnaires, record forms and laboratory examination of the level of blood sugar and cholesterol.
The results showed that after participating in the health education program, the experimental group had a significantly greater improvement in perceived severity and susceptibility to coronary heart disease, self-efficacy, response efficacy, intention of and carrying out of coronary heart disease preventive behavior about exercise, than the comparison group.
After the experiment, the experimental group and the control group had no significant difference in preventive behavior about eating.
Levels of blood sugar and cholesterol of the experimental group were also decreased significantly.
Thus, this health program should be applied at the diabetes millitus clinics in other hospitals.
The objective of this study is to investigate the effectiveness of self-help group on health promotion behavior in HIV infected patients at Pramongkutklou Hospital.
The health promotion training programme is desinged by using self-help group.
The subjects were 43 HIV infected patients who attended the infectious diseases clinic.
The data was collected with interview questionnaires before and after participation in a series of 4 self-help group sessions.
After participating in the 4 sessions of the self - help group, the subjects mean scores on knowledge and out-come practices about health promotion behaviors were significantly higher than before participating in the group.
The forms of support which members contributed to the group were emotional support, giving information about illness, treatment and vaccine.
The forms of support which come from the group to the members were emotional support, the giving information about illness and exchanging self- care experiences.
The participants need a nurse to be a group leader who serves as an advisor and gives information, suggestions and shows the appropriate method to carry out group meetings.
The problems or barriers to participating in the group are the job responsibility and the traffic jams.
This study suggests that a self- help group has a useful effect on health promotion behavior of HIV infected patients.
Further study should be undertaken to examine the usefulness of self - group techniques in the treatment of patients who suffer from other chronic illnesses.
The purpose of this study is to describe symptom experiences, symptom outcomes and management strategies of asthmatic-attack in asthmatic patients.
A model for Symptom Management developed by Larson, et al.
(1994) was applied as the conceptual framework of the study.
Thirty asthmatic patients attending the Medical out-patient clinic at Ramathibodi Hospital, during March through May 1997 were purposively selected.
Based on the protection of human subjects, the in-depth interview was performed by the investigator.
Content analysis was used for analyzing the data.
The results reveal that the asthmatic-attack was induced from a variety of stimuli, and usually occurred at night and in the early hours of the morning.
The significant symptom all patients experienced was dyspnea.
The additional symptoms were shortness of breath, chest tightness, wheezing, coughing, and increased mucous production.
The patients responses to the symptoms included: weakness, fatigue, anxiety, fear and afraid of dying.
The attack impacted on patients life and health.
The management strategies were categorized into short-term and long-terrn strategies.
The short-term strategies were used to alleviate acute episode, whereas the long-term strategies used to prevent the attack by managing self and environment.
The results support that the symptom management of asthmatic-attack is a dynamic process aimed not only at relieving and preventing the attack but also alleviating the symptom outcomes.
It is the deliberate action all patients initiate from interpreting the meaning of symptom experiences This knowledge will be useful for nurses to develop a model for educating the patients to manage the attack with effective strategies.
The purposes of this quasi-experimental research were to compare medication adherence behaviorsof schizophrenic patients before and after their participation in discharge planning, and tocompare medication adherence behaviors of schizophrenic patients who participated in dischargeplanning program, and those who participated in regular nursing activities.
Research sampleswere 40 patients which were equally assigned into one experimental group and one control groupby matching with means of medication adherence behaviors score.
Research instruments weredischarge planning program developed by the researcher and medication adherence behaviors scalewhose reliability coefficient was .90.
Medication adherence behavior data were analyzed by t-test.
Major findings were as follows:
1. Medication adherence behaviors in schizophrenic patients after participated in dischargeplanning program, were significantly higher than those before the experiment, at the .05 level.
2. Medication adherence behaviors in schizophrenic patients who participated in dischargeplanning program, was significantly higher than those of patients who participated in regularnursing activities, at the .05 level.
This is a one-group pretest-posttest quasi-experimental research study.
The study objective wasto compare problem solving ability of professional nurses before and after using the computerprogram for decision support in nursing patients with head injury.
Subjects consisted of 19professional nurses who worked in an emergency unit for at least 1 year.
The researchinstruments included the computer program for decision support in nursing patients with headinjury, the experimental control instruments and the Modified Essay Question.
All instrumentswere validated.
The MEQ had a reliability of 0.97.
Data were analyzed by using mean, standarddeviation and dependent t-test.
Major research finding was concluded as follow.
Problem solving ability of professional nurses after using computer program for decisionsupport in nursing patients with head injury was significantly higher than that before usingthe computer program at a level of 0.05.
The purposes of this quasi-experimental research were to study effects of case management insubstance dependence patients during medication treatment period on nurses' satisfaction andpatients' satisfaction.
Samples consisted of 2 groups,
1) 6 nurses involving in caring of thepatient sample, and
2) 30 substance dependence
patients during medical treatment period.
Patient subjects were assigned into an experimental group and a control group by sequence ofadmission and match paired technique.
The experimental group received case management program,while the control group received routine nursing care.
Patients' satisfaction data were collected by patients' satisfaction questionnaires developedby the researcher.
Its content validity was established by 5 experts, and its cronbach's alphacoefficient was 0.93.
Major findings were as follows:
1) The mean score of satisfaction of the patients receiving the case management program wasstatistically higher than that of the patients receiving of routine nursing care.
2) All nurses were satisfied with the case management program in working cooperation,coordination, communication, continuity of care, and resources allocation dimension.
The purposes of this quasi-experimental research were to study the effects of giving intraoperative information on anxiety of family caregivers of emergency surgical patients.
The research subjects consisted of 40 family caregivers of emergency surgical patients, Trang Hospital, family caregivers of emergency surgical patients were selected by matched pair into an experimental group and a control group.
Two groups were similar in sex, relation, age and operation.
The control group received routine nursing care while the experimental group received intraoperative information.
Research instruments were an intraoperative information, handbook for patient's family about caring surgical patient, operative video and knowledge test sheet.
Research data were obtained by questionnaires of families' anxiety.
The instruments were validated by panel of experts.
The Cronbach's alpha coefficient were .90.
Statistical techniques used in data analysis were percentage, mean, standard deviation and t-test.
Major results were as follows:
1. The anxiety at the posttest phase of the experimental group was significantly lower than the anxiety at the pretest phase (p<.05).
2. The anxiety at the posttest phase of the experimental group was significantly lower than that of the control group (p<.05).
The purposes of this quasi-experimental research were; to compare level of depression ofalcoholic patients before and after received empowerment and cognitive therapy program, and tocompare depression between level alcoholic patients who received the empowerment and cognitivetherapy program, and those who received routine nursing care.
Research samples were 40patients.
assigned into one experimental group and one control group by matching the level ofdepression and education.
The patients in the experimental group received the empowerment andcognitive therapy program, whereas, the control group received routine nursing care.
Researchinstruments which were developed by the researcher were the empowerment and cognitive therapyprogram which was validated by the group of experts, and Beck Depression Inventory.
TheCronbach's Alpha coefficient reliability of Depression Inventory was .82.
Data were analyzedusing descriptive statistics and t-test.
Major findings were as follows:
1. The mean score of depression of alcoholic patients who received the empowerment andcognitive therapy program after the experiment was significantly lower then before, at the .05level.
2. After the experiment the mean score of depression of alcoholic patients who receivedempowerment and cognitive therapy program was significantly lower then those of patients whoreceived routine nursing care, at the .05 level.
The results suggest that empowerment and cognitive therapy program can reduce depression inalcoholics patients.