See what friends are listening to in Apple Music
With Apple Music, you can share what you're listening to with friends and see what they're listening to.
Set up
a profile
Find and follow
friends
See what friends
are listening to
Control what
you share
Stop
sharing
Report
a concern
To start sharing, set up a profile
Follow the steps below for your device.
On your iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, or Android device
Open the Music app and tap For You at the bottom of your screen.
In the upper-right corner of your screen, tap your photo.
Tap See What Friends Are Listening To.
Follow the onscreen prompts to create a username, find and follow friends, share playlists, and more.
Tap Done.
Your shared playlists and the songs that you listen to will appear on your profile page.
On your Mac or PC
On your Mac, open the Music app. 
On your PC, open iTunes for Windows.
In the sidebar, click For You.
In the upper-right corner of your screen, click your photo.
In the window that appears, click Get Started.
Follow the onscreen prompts to create a username, find and follow friends, share playlists, and more.
Click Done.
Your shared playlists and the songs that you listen to will appear on your profile page.
Find and follow friends
Go to For You.
On your iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, or Android device, tap your photo in the upper-right corner, then tap View Profile. 
On your Mac or PC, click your photo in the upper-right corner.
Scroll to the bottom of your profile.
Tap Follow Friends or click Find More Friends.
From here you can follow friends in your contacts list, search for friends who use Apple Music, and more. 
You can also tap or click INVITE to have others follow your profile.
To unfollow someone or block a follower, tap or click the person, tap or click the more button , then choose Unfollow or Block.
Sharing music with friends isn't available for Child accounts that are part of Family Sharing.
See what your friends are listening to
Go to For You, then scroll down to Friends Are Listening To. 
To play music that your friend is listening to, just tap or click their music.
To listen to a mix of songs that your friends are listening to, tap Friends Mix.
To see a specific friend's profile page, go to your profile, then tap or click their photo under Followers or Following. 
From here, you can see their shared playlists and what they've been listening to lately.
If you don't see a Friends Mix, you might need to follow more people.
Control what you share
Go to For You.
On your iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, or Android device, tap your photo in the upper-right corner, then tap View Profile. 
On your Mac or PC, click your photo in the upper-right corner.
On your profile page, tap or click Edit. From here you can:
Choose who can see what you're listening to.
Hide what you're listening to and make playlists private.
Hide music that you're listening to
On your profile page, look under Listening To, find music that you want to hide, then follow the steps below for your device:
On your iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, or Android device, press and hold an album, then tap Hide from Profile.
On your Mac or PC, control-click or right-click an album, then choose Hide from Listening To.
Make playlists private
On your iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, or Android device, go to Library > Playlists and tap a playlist to open it. 
In the upper-right corner, tap Edit, then turn off Show on My Profile and in Search.
On your Mac or PC, go to the sidebar and click the playlist to open it. 
Under the playlist's title, see if there's a checkmark next to Publish on profile and in search. 
If there is, deselect it to make the playlist private.
Stop sharing
If you make your activity and playlists private, your profile picture and user name will still be visible in Search. 
To remove yourself entirely, delete your Apple Music profile:
On your iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, or Android device, go to For You, tap your photo, tap your name, then tap Edit. 
Scroll to the bottom of the screen and tap Delete Profile.
On your Mac or PC, go to For You, click your photo, then click Edit. 
Below your user name, click Delete Profile.
When you delete your profile, your user handle and music activity clear from Apple Music, but your Apple Music subscription isn't affected. 
If you shared a playlist with a friend and they saved it to their device, the playlist disappears. 
Your library and playlists don't change.
Report a concern
If you see something offensive on a user's profile or in an user-created playlist, you can report it to Apple and we'll investigate the issue. 
You can report a concern with any content that an Apple Music user uploads or shares. 
Items that you can report include:
Playlist names
Playlist images
Playlist descriptions
User names
User images
User handles (for example, @johnappleseed)
To report an offensive name or image:
Go to the user's page or playlist's page.
On your iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, Mac, or PC, tap or click the more button .  
On your Android device, tap .
Choose Report a Concern.
Learn more
Learn how to use Apple Music's other features.
Learn how to create playlists that you can share with others without sharing your listening history.
Sharing music with friends isn't available in Russia, China mainland, and Turkey.