Import photos using Apple camera adapters
Learn how to import photos and videos from a digital camera or SD Card to your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch using Apple camera adapters.
You can import photos and videos from an SD card, digital camera, or other supported accessory to your iOS device using one of these:
Lightning to SD Card Camera Reader
Lightning to USB 3 Camera Adapter
Lightning to USB Camera Adapter
Apple USB-C to SD Card Reader
If you have an iPhone 5 or later, it needs iOS 9.2 or later. 
If you have an iPod touch or iPhone 4s, it needs iOS 9.3. 
If you're using a Lightning to USB 3 Camera Adapter, you need an iPad with iOS 9.3.
Import photos and videos
To import from your SD card or digital camera, follow these steps:
Connect the adapter to your iOS device.
Connect your digital camera to the adapter by USB or insert an SD card.
Photos should automatically open to the Import tab. 
If it doesn't, open Photos and tap Import.
Tap Import All to import your content, or tap specific items, then tap Import.
When the import is complete, you might be asked to Keep or Delete the media on the camera or SD card.
You can import content only to your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch. 
You can't export content to an SD card or digital camera.
If you don’t see the import option
If you don't see the Import tab, follow these steps:
Make sure that your digital camera is on and in the correct mode to export images.
Disconnect the adapter, wait 30 seconds, then reconnect it.
Unplug the digital camera or SD card, wait 30 seconds, then reconnect.
Restart your iOS device and turn your camera off and back on.
If one is available, test with a different digital camera or SD card. 
If you can import media with a different digital camera or SD card, there might be an issue with the data on the camera or SD card. 
Try to import the data to another device or computer, then use your digital camera to format—or reset—the SD card. 
Reformatting will erase all the images on the SD card. 
Check the manual for your digital camera for more help.
If you can’t import some content
Apple camera adapters can import multiple types of media files from your digital camera or SD card. 
If the format isn't compatible with iOS, you won’t be able to view them on your device, but can import them to your computer later.
Apple camera adapters can import only content that was captured by digital cameras. 
You might not be able to import content that was renamed, edited, or copied to the digital camera or SD card.
Supported SD cards and image-transfer protocols
Picture Transfer Protocol (PTP)
Mass Storage Device protocol
SDSC
SDHC
miniSD
microSD
MMC
SDXC
Flash or USB thumb drives aren't supported for image importing.
If you're using a Lightning to USB 3 Camera Adapter, these iPad models transfer data at USB 3 speeds:
iPad Pro 12.9-inch (2nd generation)
iPad Pro 10.5-inch
iPad Pro 12.9-inch
All other adapters and iOS devices use USB 2 speeds.
Learn more
Learn more about USB Camera Adapters.
Learn how to connect to other devices and accessories with the USB-C port.