Water and other liquid damage to iPhone or iPod isn't covered by warranty
Service for the liquid damage to an iPhone or iPod isn't covered by the Apple One-Year Limited Warranty.
Find out if liquid damaged your iPhone or iPod
If liquid damages an iPhone or iPod (for example, coffee or a soft drink), the service for the liquid damage isn't covered by the Apple One-Year Limited Warranty, but you may have rights under consumer law. 
iPhone and most iPod devices that were built after 2006 have built-in Liquid Contact Indicators that will show whether the device has been in contact with water or a liquid containing water.
iPhone and most iPod devices are equipped with Liquid Contact Indicators (LCIs) that you can see from the outside.
An LCI will activate when it contacts water or a liquid containing water. 
The indicator's color is normally white or silver, but when it contacts water or a liquid containing water, it will turn fully red. 
An LCI won't activate because of humidity and temperature changes that are within the product's environmental requirements.
To find out if the LCI in your device contacted liquid, find your product in the table below and locate the LCI or LCIs in your device. 
To help you see the LCI, use a lighted magnifying glass and angle the light or the device until you can see the LCI.
This table shows where the indicator (or indicators) are and how they look after being exposed to liquid:
Product	Liquid Contact Indicator location
iPhone 11	
iPhone 11 Pro, iPhone 11 Pro Max	
iPhone XS, iPhone XS Max, iPhone X	
iPhone XR	
iPhone 8, iPhone 8 Plus	
iPhone 7, iPhone 7 Plus	
iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s Plus	 
iPhone 5, iPhone 5C, iPhone 5s,  iPhone SE	 
iPhone 4, iPhone 4s	 
iPhone 3G, iPhone 3GS	
iPhone	
iPod touch	
iPod nano	
iPod classic	 iPod classic
iPod shuffle (3rd generation)	 iPod shuffle (3rd gen)
If you aren't sure if liquid exposure is causing an issue for your device, even if you see a red LCI, contact AppleCare or an authorized iPhone service provider for help.
iPod nano (7th generation) and iPod touch (5th generation) don't have a visible Liquid Contact Indicator.