About Apple TV (2nd and 3rd generation) software updates
Learn about features in Apple TV (2nd and 3rd generation) software updates.
Find out which model you have or get the latest software. 
Learn about updates for Apple TV HD.
Software updates for Apple TV (3rd generation)
Learn about updates for your Apple TV (3rd generation).
What's new in Apple TV Software Update 7.5
This update includes general performance and stability improvements and this feature:
Control your Apple TV from Control Center: You can now control your Apple TV (3rd generation) from Control Center on all of your iOS and iPadOS devices.
Apple TV Software Update 7.4
This update includes general performance and stability improvements. 
Apple TV Software Update 7.3.1
This update includes general performance and stability improvements. 
Apple TV Software Update 7.3
This update includes general performance and stability improvements and this feature:
Apple TV app: Now available on Apple TV (3rd generation), the Apple TV app gives you one place to watch all of your favorite shows and movies across all of your devices. 
Subscribe to just the Apple TV channels you want. 
Browse thousands of titles from the iTunes Store that you can buy or rent. 
And get recommendations for shows and movies based on everything you watch.
Apple TV Software Update 7.2.2
This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 7.2.1
This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 7.2
This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 7.1
This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 7.0.3
This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 7.0.2
This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 7.0.1
This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 7.0
Refreshed user experience: Get a fresh new look for Apple TV.
Family Sharing: Play your family’s purchases.
Ask to Buy: Make sure that children get permission before they buy items from iTunes.
Descriptive Video Services: Hear descriptive video with a new accessibility feature coming to select iTunes movies and TV shows later this year.
Peer-to-peer AirPlay: Your guests can AirPlay from their Mac or iOS device directly to your Apple TV (model A1469 or later) without connecting to your wireless network.
Beats Music: Listen to music that's always right for you.
Software updates for Apple TV (2nd generation)
Learn about updates for your Apple TV (2nd generation).
Apple TV Software Update 6.2.1
This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
Previous software updates for Apple TV (2nd and 3rd generation)
Learn about earlier updates.
Apple TV Software Update 6.2
General updates: This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
iTunes Extras: Explore deleted scenes, photos, cast and crew, and more with select iTunes movie purchases. 
iTunes Extras are available for HD purchases only.
Apple TV Software Update 6.1.1
This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 6.1
Main menu: Customize your Apple TV by hiding items from the main menu.
AirPlay: This update adds a security option to require that iOS devices or Macs be verified with a one-time, onscreen code before using AirPlay (requires iOS 7.1 or later on an iOS device, or OS X 10.9.2 or later on a Mac). 
This update also adds support to allow an AirPlay device to discover Apple TV over Bluetooth in environments where multicast or Bonjour traffic is blocked on the network or the AirPlay device is on a different subnet (requires iOS 7.1 or later on iPhone 4s or later, iPad (3rd generation or later), iPad mini (1st or 2nd generation), or iPod touch (5th generation) and Apple TV (3rd generation)).
Remote app: View your purchased TV shows and movies in the Remote app and tap to play them instantly on Apple TV. 
Create and play iTunes Radio stations (requires Remote app version 4.2 or later).
General updates: This update includes improvements for software update, subtitles, and general performance.
Apple TV Software Update 6.0.2
This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 6.0.1
This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 6.0
iTunes Radio: Create your own radio stations and listen to them ad-free with iTunes Match (Available only in the United States).
iTunes Music Store: Browse, purchase, and play music directly from the iTunes Music Store. 
iCloud Photos: New support lets you play video from a shared photo stream and view photo streams from multiple contributors.
AirPlay from iCloud: Apple TV can play content from iTunes in the Cloud instead of your AirPlay device when possible. 
You need iOS 7 on your AirPlay device.
Podcasts: Sync your podcasts and podcast stations across Apple TV and all your iOS devices.
iMovie Theater: Stream your iMovie creations instantly in high definition from iCloud. 
You need to sign in to iCloud and get the latest version of iMovie for iOS or Mac.
Subtitles and Captioning: This update adds automatic subtitle selection based on Apple TV language setting and the ability to customize closed-caption style.
Conference Room Display: Lock Apple TV into Conference Room Display (for business and education environments) and show onscreen instructions for how to use AirPlay.
Software Update: Keep your Apple TV up-to-date with automatic installation of available software updates.
Setup: Use an iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch with iOS 7 to automatically transfer network settings, your Apple ID, and language preferences to Apple TV (3rd generation). This isn't available for iPhone 4 and iPad 2.
Apple TV Software Update 5.3
Third-party content: This update adds support for HBO GO, ESPN, Sky News, Qello, and Crunchyroll.
iTunes Store: This update also improves reliability of signing in to the iTunes Store and playing purchased content.
Apple TV Software Update 5.2.1
iTunes in the Cloud: Now there is support for Music in the Cloud in Japan and Israel.
General updates: This update includes improvements for software update, subtitles, and general performance.
Apple TV Software Update 5.2
iTunes in the Cloud: Browse and play your purchased iTunes music directly from iCloud. 
This feature might not be available in all countries or regions.
Bluetooth keyboard: Use your Apple Wireless Keyboard to control your Apple TV. 
AirPlay audio for videos: Send stereo audio from movies, TV shows, and other videos on Apple TV to AirPlay-enabled speakers and devices (including AirPort Express and other Apple TVs).
General updates: This update also includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 5.1.1
iTunes Up Next: This update adds support for Up Next with iTunes 11 or iTunes Match. 
See upcoming songs when you play music on your Apple TV. 
Add new songs and edit what's queued with your Remote or your Remote app.
General updates: This update also includes performance and stability improvements for iTunes Store, AirPlay, Netflix, iTunes Match, and wired Ethernet connections.
Apple TV Software Update 5.1
Shared Photo Streams: Accept invitations for Shared Photo Streams, browse photos and comments, and receive notifications of new content.
AirPlay: Send audio content from Apple TV to AirPlay-enabled speakers and devices (including AirPort Express and other Apple TVs). 
You can also require an onscreen code to use AirPlay with your Apple TV.
iTunes account switching: Sign in to iTunes with multiple Apple IDs and switch quickly between them.
Trailers: Search movie trailers. 
In the United States and see show times for local theaters.
Screen savers: This update includes new Cascade, Shrinking Tiles, and Sliding Panels screen savers.
Main menu: Reorder icons on the second page by holding down the select button on the remote.
Subtitles: This update adds SDH support for the deaf and hard-of-hearing as well as improvements to viewing and selecting subtitles.
Network configuration: This update adds support for setting up advanced network options using configuration profiles.
General updates: This update includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 5.0.2
Parental Controls: This update addresses an issue which caused content restrictions to be incorrectly applied for the iTunes Store in Australia.
Apple TV Software Update 5.0.1
iTunes previews: Previews for movies and TV shows from the iTunes Store can now be viewed in HD.
AirPlay: This update fixes an issue that caused some iOS apps to have issues connecting through AirPlay.
Home Sharing: This update improves the reliability of Home Sharing connections.
Netflix: This update addresses an issue affecting Netflix login and navigation.
General updates: This update also includes general performance and stability improvements.
Apple TV Software Update 5.0
New interface: This update adds fast visual access to all content choices.
Movie purchases in iCloud: This update includes support for buying movies on Apple TV and playing back purchased movies from iCloud.
Genius Recommendations: This update adds recommendations for content on the iTunes Store based on previous rentals and purchases.
Screensaver photos: Enjoy a new, built-in screensaver of National Geographic photos.
On-device sign-up: This update adds on-device sign up for content partners on Apple TV using your Apple ID.
Apple TV Software Update 4.4.4
This update includes general performance and stability improvements, including a fix for an issue that displayed an error when playing some video content.
Apple TV Software Update 4.4.3
Netflix: This update adds support for Netflix in Mexico.
Audio output: This update addresses the issue where audio doesn't play through the optical port when the TV is turned off.
Apple TV Software Update 4.4.2
This update addresses an issue that required a small number of Apple TV units to be connected to iTunes in order to complete the update.
Apple TV Software Update 4.4
Photo Stream: View photos recently taken on your iOS device and pushed to your Photo Stream in iCloud. 
AirPlay Mirroring: Wirelessly stream what's on your iPhone 4S or iPad 2 screen to your HDTV.
National Hockey League:* Watch live games and view highlights, scores, and more.
Wall Street Journal: Watch up-to-date news, business commentary, and financial analysis from leading experts.
New Slideshow themes: Enjoy your photos on your HDTV with new slideshow themes including Photo Wall, Flip-up, and Shifting Tiles.
Netflix: This update adds support for subtitles when available.
Live and on-demand games require a NHL subscription. Blackouts apply.
Apple TV Software Update 4.3
TV show purchases: Purchase TV shows on Apple TV. 
Shows purchased on Apple TV can be redownloaded on other iOS devices. 
Shows purchased on other iOS devices or with iTunes automatically show up as available to play on Apple TV. 
Features might be limited by region.
Vimeo: Browse and watch millions of user-uploaded videos found on the Vimeo service for free.
Apple TV Software Update 4.2.2
Audio: This update addresses an issue in which audio is not output when playing some video content.
Video playback: This update addresses an issue in which video is not displayed when playing some content.
Audio output setting: This update adds an audio output setting for switching to 16-bit audio for compatibility with some TVs and AV receivers.
Live FF/RW improvements: This update improves the performance of fast-forwarding and rewinding live events.
Movie description: This update addresses an issue in which the description information is not displayed for some movies.
YouTube video order: This update addresses an issue in which YouTube subscription videos were not ordered by date.
Apple TV Software Update 4.2.1
TV compatibility: This update addresses issues that may cause the screen to flicker or display incorrect color on some older TVs.
Wake from sleep: This update addresses an issue where Apple TV may not wake up from sleep.
Audio: This update addresses an issue where audio may not be heard on some TV models after switching from another input.
General updates: This update also includes stability and performance fixes.
Apple TV Software Update 4.2
AirPlay for apps and websites: Wirelessly stream video from iOS apps and websites that are enabled for AirPlay, on an iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch running iOS 4.3.
MLB.TV:1 Watch live and on-demand Major League Baseball games in HD with an MLB.TV subscription. 
Pause, rewind, fast-forward, and switch between the home and away broadcast. 
Even non-subscribers can access real-time MLB scores and in-game stats, plus see the full-season schedule, standings, and stats (Live games are subject to blackouts).
NBA Game Time:2 Watch live and on-demand games with an NBA League Pass Broadband subscription. 
Pause, rewind, and fast-forward both live and on-demand games. 
And non-subscribers can access real-time NBA scores and in-game stats, plus see the full-season schedule, standings, stats, and video highlights (Live and archived games are subject to blackouts).
Netflix Dolby Digital 5.1:3 Enjoy Dolby Digital 5.1 surround sound when you watch Netflix movies and TV shows on Apple TV (not available with all titles).
New slideshow themes: View photos with the new Scrapbook, Photo Mobile, and Holiday Mobile slideshow themes or use as the Apple TV screensaver.
Improved on-screen keyboard: Search and enter names and passwords more easily with the redesigned on-screen keyboard.
AirPlay photo slideshow themes: All Apple TV photo slideshow themes are now available when using AirPlay to wirelessly send a photo slideshow from an iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch to Apple TV.
HDMI color mode: This update adds a setting for changing the color mode output over HDMI.
Connectivity and performance fixes: This update includes performance and connectivity fixes.
Live and on-demand games require a MLB.TV 
subscription. 
Blackouts apply.
Available in the United States. 
Live and on-demand games require NBA League Pass Broadband subscription. 
Blackouts apply.
Not available with all titles. 
Netflix is available in the U.S.and Canada.
Apple TV Software Update 4.1.1
TV resolution fix: This update addresses an issue that causes some high-definition TVs to incorrectly display at 480p.
Download fix: This update addresses an issue that may cause a movie or TV show to be re-downloaded.
Apple TV Software Update 4.1
AirPlay: Stream Videos, Photos, and Music to your Apple TV from an iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch with iOS 4.2 or later. 
Stream video and music to your Apple TV from a Mac or PC running iTunes 10.2 or later.
VoiceOver: The VoiceOver accessibility feature brings screen reading to Apple TV, making it easier to use for those who are blind or have impaired vision. 
You will hear a description of the menu item currently being highlighted by the cursor, other onscreen text, and feedback on video and audio controls. 
VoiceOver speaks all 18 languages available on Apple TV.
Connectivity and performance fixes: This update also includes performance and connectivity fixes.