Use your mobile phone number as your Apple ID
When you create a new Apple ID in some countries or regions, you can use your mobile phone number as your Apple ID username.
Here's how it works
Any time you set up an iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch, you have the option to sign in with your existing Apple ID or create a new account. 
If you create a new Apple ID on an iPhone in iOS 11 or later, you can use your mobile phone number as your username in China mainland and India. 
If you live in China mainland, use your (+86) mobile phone number. 
If you live in India, use your (+91) number. 
Depending on your carrier, you might also be able to create a new account with a phone number on some Android devices, smart TVs, and streaming devices. 
-Just choose Create Your Apple ID from the Apple ID sign in screen and follow the instructions to create your new account.
Once your account is created, you can use it to sign in to any Apple device or service. 
Whenever you sign in to a new device, app, or service, you’ll enter your mobile phone number—including the country code—and your password. 
Be sure to use the same Apple ID everywhere you sign in so that your Apple devices and services work together seamlessly.
If you already have an Apple ID that's an email address, you might not be able to change it to a mobile phone number. 
However, you can associate your account with different phone numbers or email addresses on your Apple ID account page.
What you need
Here's what you need to use your mobile phone number as your Apple ID to sign in:
iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch with iOS 11 or later
Mac with macOS High Sierra or later
Apple Watch with watchOS 4 or later
Apple TV with tvOS 11 or later
Apple.com, iCloud.com, and other Apple web properties*
Apple services on third-party devices
*Depending on how you created your Apple ID, you might be prompted to change your username from a phone number to an email address. 
You might also need to provide additional information.
Account security
Depending on where you created your account and how much personal information is associated with it, account security requirements might vary. 
When using an Apple device, it's best to use two-factor authentication. 
In some cases, you might be prompted to review or upgrade your security when signing in on an Apple device or an Apple website.
Messages from Apple
Since there isn't an email address associated with a phone number-based Apple ID, communications from Apple come to you through Messages on your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch, and your Apple ID account page.
To make sure that you receive important account-related messages on your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch, sign in to iCloud, iMessage, and FaceTime with your phone number Apple ID. 
If you sign in to iCloud on an iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch without a SIM card, you can't use FaceTime and iMessage. 
You can always see your messages from Apple on your Apple ID account page.
Change your Apple ID to a different mobile phone number
Depending on the country or region that you live in and how you created your Apple ID, you might be able to change your Apple ID to a different mobile phone number from your Apple ID account page or on your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch.
In China mainland, your new Apple ID must be another (+86) mobile phone number. 
In India, your new Apple ID must be another (+91) mobile phone number.
From your Apple ID account page
Sign out of every Apple service and device that uses your Apple ID.
Go to appleid.apple.com and sign in.
In the Account section, click Edit. 
Under your Apple ID, click Change Apple ID.
After you enter the mobile phone number that you want to use as your Apple ID, a verification code is sent to you at that number. 
Enter the verification code from the text into the fields provided.
Sign back in to all Apple services with your new Apple ID.
On your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch
Sign out of every Apple service and device that uses your Apple ID, except the one you're using to change your Apple ID.
Go to Settings > [your name] > Name, Phone Numbers, Email. 
Next to Reachable At, tap Edit > Delete. 
Tap Continue and follow the instructions.
After you enter the mobile phone number that you want to use as your Apple ID, a verification code is sent to you at that number. 
Enter the verification code from the text into the fields provided.
Sign back in to all Apple services with your new Apple ID.
If your new mobile phone number is already connected to your Apple ID as an iMessage phone number, shared phone number, or trusted phone number, then you don't need to verify it.
Didn't get a code? If you use iOS 11.3 or later on your iPhone, you might not need to enter a verification code. 
In some cases, your trusted phone number can be automatically verified in the background on your iPhone. 
It’s one less thing to do, and your account is still protected with two-factor authentication.
If you move to a different country or region
You can change your username to a new mobile phone number. 
Make sure that the mobile phone number can be verified by SMS. 
First, change your Apple ID country or region. 
Then follow the steps to change your Apple ID to a new mobile phone number.