About collaboration for Pages, Numbers and Keynote
Invite others to access your documents and work on them together in real time. Collaboration is built into Pages, Numbers and Keynote on iPhone, iPad, iPod touch and Mac, and online on iCloud.com.
To collaborate on your iPhone, iPad or Mac, you'll need an iPhone, iPad or Mac with iOS 12, iPadOS, or macOS Mojave or later, and Pages, Numbers or Keynote version 10.1. 
To collaborate using Pages, Numbers or Keynote online on iCloud.com, you'll need Safari 9.1.3 or later, or Google Chrome for your Mac. 
For PC, you'll need Google Chrome or Microsoft Edge.
Invite others to collaborate
When you invite people to collaborate on a document, spreadsheet or presentation, you send an iCloud.com link to them. 
Up to 100 people can view and edit a shared document at the same time.
The name of the document is included in the URL. 
If the title or content of the document is confidential, make sure you ask participants not to forward the link to anyone else.
You can also invite others to collaborate on Pages, Numbers or Keynote documents by sharing a folder in iCloud Drive. 
When you share a folder, any Pages, Numbers or Keynote documents in the shared folder will automatically become collaborative documents. 
People you invite can open and view a shared document of any size. 
If your document is larger than 2 GB and you want people you've invited to be able to edit it, use Pages, Numbers or Keynote for iPhone, iPad or Mac to reduce the document's size to less than 2 GB before inviting others.
Invite people from iPhone or iPad
Sign in to iCloud on your device, then turn on iCloud Drive for Pages, Numbers and Keynote.
You can share with the document open or from the document manager
With the document open, tap the Collaborate button  in the toolbar.
From the document manager, tap Browse, tap Select, then tap the document you want to share. 
Tap the Share button , then tap Add People. 
You may have to download the document to your device first.
To set restrictions on who can view and change your document, tap Share Options, then choose an option. 
By default, people you invite can edit your document.
Tap your preferred method for sending the link.
Add any other information, then send or post the message.
The Collaborate button  will appear at the top of your document with a tick. 
This icon also shows you how many people, not including you, have the document open.
Invite people from your Mac
Sign in to iCloud on your device, then turn on iCloud Drive for Pages, Numbers and Keynote.
Open the Pages, Numbers or Keynote document you want to share.
Click the Collaborate button  in the toolbar.
To set restrictions on who can view and change your document, click Share Options, then choose an option. 
By default, people you invite will be able to edit your document.
Choose how you want to invite others to work on your document.
Click Share, then send or post the message. 
The Collaborate button  will appear at the top of your document with a tick. 
This icon also shows you how many people, not including you, have the document open.
Invite people from iCloud.com
Sign in to iCloud.com with your Apple ID, then open Pages, Numbers or Keynote.
Open the document you want to share.
Tap or click the Collaborate button  in the toolbar.
To set restrictions on who can view and change your document, click Share Options. 
By default, people you invite will be able to edit your document.
Choose how you want to invite others to work on your documents.
If you have web-only iCloud access, you must copy the link. 
Click Share, then send or post the message. 
The Collaborate button  will appear at the top of your document with a tick. 
This icon also shows you how many people, not including you, have the document open.
Restrict a document
If you restrict your document so only people you invite can collaborate, they must sign in to iCloud or iCloud.com with their Apple ID.
Tap or click the Collaborate button .
Choose Share Options, then select any of the following options:
If you only want specific participants to access the document, choose "Only people you invite". 
To open the shared document, those participants will need to sign in to iCloud or iCloud.com with an Apple ID. 
If they don't have an Apple ID, they can create one after you have shared the document with them.
If you want anyone who has the link to the shared document to be able to open it, choose "Anyone with the link".
If you want anyone who can access the document to be able to edit and print it, choose "Can make changes".
If you want anyone who can access the document to be able to view and print it, but not edit it, choose "View only".
You can change these Share Options at any time. 
To change Share Options, click or tap the Collaborate button , then make the changes you want.
Set a password
You can also assign a password to a document so only people who know the password can open the document:
On your Mac, choose File > Set Password, enter the password and a hint, then click Set Password.
With the document open on your iPhone or iPad, tap the More button , tap Set Password, enter the requested information, then tap Done.
Online on iCloud.com, click the Tools button , click Set Password, enter the password and a hint, then click Set Password.
If you select the "Only people you invite" Share Option, only people with permission to edit the document can add, change or delete the document's password. 
Otherwise, only you can modify the password.
Collaborate on a shared document
You can see the edits that other people have made in real time, hide or show editing activity, and more. 
If you want to see the documents that are shared:
On your iPhone or iPad, tap Recents or the Recents button  in the document manager.
Your shared documents will appear at the bottom of the screen.
On iCloud.com, click Shared in the document manager sidebar.
When editing a shared document, you can use all of the features of Pages, Numbers and Keynote, with some exceptions. 
See who's working on the document
To see who's joined the document, tap or click the Collaborate button . 
If you see a dot next to someone's name in the list, it means they have the document open. 
Tap or click the dot to see where they are editing.
If you want to communicate with other participants, you can add and reply to comments without leaving Pages, Numbers or Keynote using comment threads.
Edit while offline
If you're not connected to the Internet, you can still edit a shared document. 
Any edits you make offline will be saved for at least 30 days and will be uploaded to iCloud automatically when you go back online. 
Other participants will see your changes when your changes have been uploaded. 
You can check the sync status of your document from the document manager on iPhone or iPad, or by choosing View > Show Sync Status on a Mac.
To send a copy of the document with your changes to someone else before your changes are uploaded, tap the More button  on iPhone or iPad or click Share on Mac, then choose Send a Copy. 
If you attach a document from the Files app (on iPhone or iPad) or the Finder (on Mac), your changes won't be included. 
If someone you're collaborating with deletes an object, Keynote slide or Numbers sheet you’ve edited offline, those edits won't be in the document when you’re back online and the document syncs with iCloud.
Stop sharing a document
Open the document, then tap or click the Collaborate button  > Stop Sharing, then tap or click OK.
When you stop sharing a document, it will be removed from iCloud Drive for all participants. 
If you re-share the document later, the link will remain the same. 
If you set the document's Share Option to "Only people you invite", you will need to re-invite participants.
Features not supported with collaboration
If you need to use one of these features, stop sharing the document, make your changes, then share the document again. 
When you stop sharing a document, it will be removed from iCloud Drive for all participants. 
If you've restricted the document to "Only people you invite", you will need to re-invite everyone after.
These features aren't currently available when you collaborate with other participants:
Pages, Numbers and Keynote
Add or edit media files that are larger than 50 MB.1
Reduce File Size (File > Reduce File Size).
2 Drag rows and columns between body and header areas in tables.
Create, delete or reorder styles.
Edit with Ruby in Asian languages.
Create or edit custom cell formats.
Replace every instance of a font in a document.
Pages
Adjust footnote settings.
Insert, cut, copy, paste, delete, duplicate, reorder or edit sections.
Adjust EndNote settings.
Add and edit master objects.
Insert date and time smart fields.
Convert Word Processing documents to Page Layout documents and vice versa.
Edit page number settings. 
Add or edit master pages.
Reapply master to page.
Numbers
Create or edit forms on iPhone or iPad.
Insert smart fields.
Copy or paste table styles.
Transpose tables.
Keynote
Change slide size.
Change theme.
Record a slideshow or play a previously recorded slideshow. 
Add or edit a soundtrack. 
Edit presenter notes while you play a slideshow.
Clear a soundtrack or delete tracks.
Clear an existing recording of a slideshow.
Pages, Numbers and Keynote for iCloud
Some features aren’t currently available when you collaborate from iCloud.com:
If you are tracking changes in a Pages document, you can view the document and select text, but not edit it.
If your Pages, Numbers or Keynote document has any vertical text, you can view an image of the document on iCloud.com, but not edit it.
Editing objects inside groups.
You can still edit documents containing tracked changes and vertical text in Pages, Numbers and Keynote on iPhone, iPad and Mac.
1 On iCloud.com, you can only add images that are up to 10 MB in size.
2 You can't reduce the size of a shared document, but you can reduce the size of a copy.
If collaboration isn't available
If you use Pages, Numbers or Keynote and collaboration isn't available, you may need to update your apps on your iPhone, iPad or Mac. 
Turn on automatic updates so that your apps always stay up to date. 
If your device is too old to update your apps, you can still collaborate online on iCloud.com using a Mac or PC. 
If you want to send a copy of the document, you can send it without collaborating:
On your Mac, go to Share > Send a Copy.
On your iPhone or iPad, tap the More button  > Share. 
On iCloud.com, click the Tools button  > Send a Copy.
