Why partner with us
British Council
Bring the world's English experts to your institution.
World Authority in English
We are a world leader in English language teaching. 
Our global network of teaching centres reaches more than 500,000 students each year. 
With more than 70 years of English language teaching experience around the world, we know how to teach English efficiently and how to support our students in making progress more quickly and effectively.
Proven Methodology We believe that students learn best through doing real-life classroom tasks with the support of experienced, fully-qualified teachers.
We value each learner, and our professional teachers always reflect on their students’ development throughout the courses, providing ongoing feedback and advice as required.
With our proven teaching techniques, students get the most from their courses and improve their English language skills to reach their full potential.
UK-qualified English instructors
All British Council teachers have:
a first degree
a Cambridge Certificate in Teaching English as a Foreign language (or equivalent)
substantial teaching experience in a variety of teaching contexts 
extensive knowledge of British culture and the British education system.
a good understanding of the Thai education system
Many also have a second degree (Masters), a Cambridge Diploma in Teaching English as a Foreign Language (or equivalent) and experience in fields outside of teaching.
We are committed to ongoing professional development and support our instructors through regular in-house training, lesson observations and funding for further study.
A Teacher Teaching
Our aims
We aim for every child to:
study in a safe, secure and supportive environment
communicate clearly and confidently in English
express themselves creatively and imaginatively
develop study strategies that will enhance their academic performance
establish a solid foundation in grammatical structures and writing
be encouraged to take responsibility for their own learning