Thai-UK Transnational Education Programme
Transnational Education
Our objective
To help foster collaborations with the government and the UK and increase university and research capacity in internationalisation, quality improvement and creating opportunities for mobility and exchange.
Our approach
We work collaboratively with governments and education institutions to internationalise education in alignment with national policies and plans to support and develop existing processes. 
Through our global network of partners and experts, we have access to the very latest educational expertise and practices, which we build into programmes to improve education outcomes in the countries we work in. 
We promote a global perspective in education to enable young people to develop the skills and understanding their need to achieve success at school and improve their international competitiveness in the future.
Our impact
The Thai-UK Transnational Education Programme (TNE) was initiated by the British Council in Thailand with the nine national Thai research universities in 2015, in order to provide opportunities for Thai and UK higher education institutions to develop a joint or a double degree, offering opportunities for students from Thailand and neighbouring countries to gain UK qualiﬁcations in Thailand. 
In addition, this programme helps to encourage internationalisation and teaching collaboration between Thailand and the UK. 
Nine new joint or double degree programmes between Thailand and the UK are expected to be launched in August 2017. 
Building on previous success, the Transnational Education Initiative is planned to be expanded to further Thai and UK higher education institutions from 2017 onward.
Recognising the potential of expanding TNE models in Thailand, the British Council in partnerships with the Office of Higher Education Commission, and nine research universities developed “UK- Thailand transnational Education development project” aiming to increase education mobility through university links which could lead to an internationalised environment and economic benefits for both countries.
Expected outcomes
Academic excellence: new collaboration will enhance international profile for the universities leading to a better economy and enable knowledge transfer which will potentially diffuse to other institutions across the region.
Research collaborations: through excellence academic link, it will help growing the population of high-quality postgraduate researchers and building research collaborations with academic partners, business and government sectors.
International opportunity and diversity for students: the collaborations will help expanding and increasing opportunities for students to gain an international experience and developing global citizens.
Testimonial
“Much appreciation goes out to British Council Thailand for bringing together interested and potential institutional partners to discuss possibilities in designing and creating a unique and suitable model of transnational education, at the same time disentangling the complexity of the process. 
With all the hard work put in place, we now witness a seed growing beautifully into a ﬂower.” 
Assoc. Prof. Bundit Thipakorn, Ph.D., Deputy Secretary General, Ofﬁce of the Higher Education Commission, Ministry of Education, Thailand