Primary Plus English course (6-12 years)
Improve your child's English skills and life skills to tackle future challenges
Start in May or October	1 class a week for a 42 weeks 
Bangkok, Nonthaburi and ChiangMai	6-12 years
Give your child a headstart – with inspiring English classes for kids
Primary Plus, our English course for kids, will encourage your child aged 6 to 12 years to express themselves in a safe, motivating environment. 
We create a space where only English is spoken. 
Children feel at the centre of their own learning. 
They grow in confidence as they develop their fluency in English.
Inspiring. 
Engaging. 
Motivating.
Your child will: 
build confidence by speaking in English about familiar topics such as their surroundings, from their bedroom to their neighbourhood
express themselves through exciting activities and group projects – exploring subjects like the natural world, from under the sea to outer space
develop important life skills, which prepare them for their future beyond the classroom.
Course information
COURSE LEVELS
Primary Plus Level 1
Primary Plus Level 2
Primary Plus Level 3
Primary Plus Level 4
Primary Plus Level 5
Primary Plus Level 6
COURSE DURATION
One 2 hour lesson per week
Once a week
Semesters start in May and October
FIND OUT MORE ABOUT THIS COURSE
Send a message to our English course consultants to find out more about this course.
WHY STUDY PRIMARY PLUS?
We aim to provide opportunities for our students to practise using English both in and outside of classroom which will help them to do better at school and perform their best in English exams.
LEARN ENGLISH AND SO MUCH MORE 
Young students on our English courses learn by getting involved in activities that interest them. 
Our expert teachers help them develop their English skills – and also creativity, critical thinking, problem solving and leadership skills. 
Find out more about how we teach. 
SET YOUR CHILD ON THE PATH TO SUCCESS 
We see parents as partners. 
You will receive regular feedback on your child’s progress. 
At each age, we will assess their development in English language and core life skills. 
Our aim is that by the end of the course your child will achieve a minimum of A2 on the CEFR (Common European Framework of Reference for Languages).
You will also get a log in to the Primary Plus online portal, so that your child can continue learning at home.