Partner with us
Our partners value our global reach, network and trusted brand. 
We create innovative, high-performing joint programmes with partners worldwide.
Why partner with us?
Partnership is at the heart of everything we do at the British Council and it has been since we started in 1934. 
We are driven by our mission to build trust and opportunity globally and we have ambitious goals that can only be achieved by working with others. 
A partnership to us means combined and increased impact, innovation or influence.
Our ability to work at scale with partners places us in a unique position to develop new thinking. 
We work with our partners to find innovative solutions to challenges, whether at a country or international level, leveraging our global networks, expertise and trust to help them achieve their goals.
Learn more about our partnership projects in Thailand
Regional English Training Centres
Regional English Training Centres
We aim to raise the level of English as a second/other language in Thailand and promote more widespread, higher quality teaching, learning and assessment of English.
Transnational Education
Thai-UK Transnational Education Programme
We foster collaborations with the government and the UK and increase university capacity in internationalisation, quality improvement and creating opportunities for mobility and exchange.
Newton Fund Institutional Links
Newton Fund
Building and strengthening UK-Thailand research and partnerships
FameLab Thailand National Competition 2017
FameLab and School Lab
FameLab and School Lab We are building international networks of skilled science communicators and strengthening the science and society interface by creating a platform for students and young adults to become the new face of science in the internationally recognised science communication competition, FameLab and School Lab.
Bhukram
Arts and Creative Industry
To advance Thailand’s creative economy by utilising the world-leading innovation and creativity of the UK to make a positive contribution to people, society and the arts sector in Thailand.