About Teeside University
Teesside University is a public university with its main campus in Middlesbrough, Teesside, North East England and offers an outstanding study experience for international students. 
Teesside University has invested £270 million into their new campus in Middlesbrough, creating new, world-class teaching facilities, and a safe and friendly place for students to focus on their studies.
Teesside University is committed to creating and delivering a valuable and enjoyable learning experience for students — it is what they do best. 
The International Student Barometer Survey 2017* showed a 94.4% overall satisfaction rate among international students (409 students participated). 
Students from over 100 countries have graduated from the programmes listed in The Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2017-18**. 
With its award-winning campus and 85 years of innovation in education, Teesside University focuses on helping students develop the knowledge and skills necessary for enhancing their career potential. 
In the International Student Barometer Survey 2017*, Teesside University received a 100% satisfaction rate for its Careers Service (409 students participated), with alumni going on to work for organisations such as 22cans, ADP, Aston Martin, the BBC, British Aerospace, Delta Airlines, Disney, the Ford Motor Company, Framestore, Goldman Sachs, HSBC, Johnson Matthey, Microsoft, the NHS, Raleigh UK, Rolls-Royce, TEAGUE, Total, the United States Air Force Research Lab, and Vodafone. 
Teesside offers low-cost living and the student budget will go further than in many other university towns and cities across the UK. 
Teesside University offers some of the most affordable student accommodation in the UK. 
The cost of university accommodation for 2018 starts from just £58 a week (£251 a month) — around half the cost of equivalent accommodation in London. 
Travel costs are comparatively low too, and the compact campus is just a short walk from the university accommodation and Middlesbrough town centre. 
Some of the most beautiful coast, countryside and historic cities in the UK can be reached within minutes — all by public transport. 
According to the International Student Barometer Survey 2017*, students expressed 90% overall satisfaction with the living experience.