The University of Hull
University of Hull
Find more information about the University of Hull
City/Town: Hull
Region: Northern England 
Level of study:
Pathways to higher education 
Undergraduate 
Postgraduate taught course 
Postgraduate research (e.g. MPhil, PhD)
English course 
The University of Hull was formed in 1927, making us the 14th oldest university in England. 
With a proud history of academic excellence and of creating and inspiring life-changing research, we offer the perfect combination of heritage and high technology, setting us apart from most other universities.
Hull was named the UK’s most affordable student city in the Natwest 2018 Student Living Index, and our single-site campus contains everything you need. 
We’ve invested £200 million on new facilities including a world-class library, a superb health campus, a state-of-the-art concert hall, on-campus student accommodation and new sports facilities. 
We also offer scholarship opportunities for all international students.
We earned a silver award in the Government’s Teaching Excellence Framework which recognises excellence in teaching and learning in UK universities and colleges, and we specialise in a wide range of high-quality undergraduate and postgraduate courses. 
Our research tackles some of the biggest global challenges, from health to habitats, food to flooding and supply chains to slavery.
An impressive 97.9% of our international students go into work or further study within six months of graduating, according to the Higher Education Statistics Agency.
Our award-winning student union – with more than 150 societies and sports clubs – and our Student Support Team – which provides advice on issues including health and wellbeing, visas and immigration, and learning support – will ensure that you get the most out of everything the university has to offer.
We look forward to welcoming you to our internationally-minded, beautiful, green campus.
Scholarships for students applying at the Study UK Fair:
£2,500 guaranteed tuition fee discount for all Masters students. 
£2,000 per year guaranteed tuition fee discount for all undergraduate students studying on an Arts programme.
£2,500 per year guaranteed tuition fee discount for all undergraduate students studying on a Science programme.