University of Southampton
Find More Information about University of Southampton
University of Southampton
City/Town: Southampton
Region: Southern England 
www.southampton.ac.uk 
The University of Southampton is a founder member of the Russell Group of 24 research intensive UK universities. 
It is regularly ranked among the top 20 institutions  in the UK and in the top 1% of universities worldwide.  
Our academic strengths include the sciences, engineering, computer science, medicine, law, business, education, art, humanities and social sciences. 
Our focus on  interdisciplinary research enables staff and students to collaborate on topics of global interest such as food security, bio-fuel technology, carbon emissions and web science. 
The University provides a cosmopolitan and culturally diverse environment in which to study. 
It has about 25,000 students, of which 30% are from outside the  UK representing more than 135 countries. 
Southampton is a campus university based across five sites in Southampton and Winchester, and a campus in Malaysia. 
In addition to our academic facilities and support  services, there is a wide range of student-led social activities, sports and leisure facilities. 
We guarantee accommodation to international students depending on the duration of their course. 
For 2019 entry, this is full duration of studies for undergraduate and first year of postgraduate study. 
Our masters programmes are one year in duration. 
Our careers service offers advice and opportunities for career planning and enhancing employability skills.
Situated on the south coast, just over an hour from London, Southampton is a thriving modern city, steeped in history and culture with excellent links to the rest of the UK and Europe.    
There are many reasons to choose Southampton. 
Here are just a selection:
Top Global 100 University (QS 2019), UK Top 20 (Complete University Guide 2019)
Founding member of the prestigious Russel Group of 24 research intensive UK universities
3rd best place to live and work in the UK (Good Growth for Cities Index, 2017, DEMOS-PwC)
Our Meet & Greet airport pick up free of charge on select arrival dates
Guaranteed accommodation for international students
UniLink bus pass included in university accommodation, linking you to all Southampton campuses, university accommodation, city centre, airport, train stations and key shopping areas throughout the city
13th most affordable city in the UK (Natwest Student Living Indez 2018)
Award winning Careers Destinations team, offering employability skills workshops, paid internship opportunities flexible around studies, placements, mentoring, entrepreneurship support, FutureWorlds start up incubator.
Over 300 clubs and societies, including Thai society. 
Extensive sports facilities ranging from £8.5 million sports centre including a 25 metre swimming pool (also used for sports such as kayak polo). 
Gym on highfield campus and at a number of university accommodation, including Mayflower and Glen Eyre.
Vibrant region with many events in the city throughout the year and well connected to see the rest of the UK and Europe. 
Southampton is located 1 hour and 20 minutes on the train to London.