Lancaster University
Find More Information about Lancaster University
Lancaster University
City/Town: Lancaster
Region: Northern England 
www.lancaster.ac.uk
Lancaster University is a consistently ranked top 10 UK university in all major league tables and is also highly ranked in international league tables such as the QS World Rankings. 
Lancaster was named “University of the Year 2018” by The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide. 
It has also taken the top spot for Best Campus University, Best University in the North West UK and has been awarded TEF Gold – the highest possible score in the UK’s Teaching Excellence Framework ratings, which is testament to its exceptionally high quality teaching and excellent teaching facilities.
Students at Lancaster University are more satisfied with their course than the average UK student according to the latest National Student Survey, placing us firmly amongst the top 10 UK universities for student satisfaction. 
These results reflect the dedication of staff who work hard to ensure that every student who comes here will receive the very best education. 
Lancaster is also ranked 3rd in the UK for graduate-level employment in The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2019 with many students securing top graduate jobs throughout a variety of sectors following graduation.
Lancaster is a campus-based university located in a beautiful, historic city in the north of England, situated within an hour to Manchester and Manchester’s International Airport and the stunning scenery of the Lake District, and 2.5 hours away by train to London. With over 13,000 students from over 100 nationalities, over 20% of our students are from overseas giving Lancaster a diverse and international environment.
Lancaster is proud to be one of only a small handful of UK universities to have a collegiate system, each with its own distinctive character, support network and accommodation (a bit like Harry Potter!). 
We have the best student accommodation in the UK, having won ‘Best University Halls’ in the National Student Housing Survey seven times since 2010.
Lancaster University is organised into four main faculties (Arts & Social Sciences, Science & Technology, Health & Medicine & our Management School), each of which comprises multiple departments, institutes and centres which offer a wide range of subjects at both undergraduate and postgraduate level for students to choose from.