Box Hill School
Find more information about Box Hill School
Box Hill School
City/Town: Dorking
Region: Southern England 
www.boxhillschool.com
Box Hill School is a friendly co-educational school for boarding and day students aged 11-18 set in beautiful grounds in leafy Surrey and only forty minutes from central London. 
As a Round Square school, we believe in developing the whole student, enabling them to achieve both inside and outside of the classroom. 
By surrounding the core of academic study with a range of activities, sports and expeditions, we draw out talents and abilities and unlock potential.
We pride ourselves in being a smaller school with a nurturing environment, as it allows us to give each student high levels of attention in class and exceptional pastoral care for which we are rightly renowned. 
The international aspect of the school is important to our Round Square approach and sets us apart from other schools. 
Our parents recognise the benefits to their children of mixing with other cultures; opening their eyes to a wider world. 
Box Hill students emerge as well educated, well rounded and tolerant students excited and ready for the challenges of university and the world beyond. 
Through our differentiated teaching and exceptional pastoral guidance comes academic success for our students. 
The difference in our approach however, comes from our determination and passion to develop the whole person and unearth qualities in our students that they did not know they possessed. 
Students amaze themselves when they see what they are capable of achieving and we watch them grow in confidence. 
Our Round Square ideals of Internationalism, Democracy, Environmental Concern, Adventure, Leadership and Service set us apart and we apply them every day in the class room and through our vast range of activities and expeditions. 
It is important to us that we help produce well–adjusted, tolerant and confident young people with a sense of pride in themselves who are ready to greet the world with energy and enthusiasm.