University of Huddersfield
Find More Information about University of Huddersfield
University of Huddersfield
City/Town: Huddersfield
Region: Northern England 
www.hud.ac.uk 
The University of Huddersfield is an exciting, stimulating place to learn. 
As a growing centre of research and academic excellence, which can trace its roots back over 190 years to 1825, the University is always pushing the boundaries of knowledge. 
Choosing Huddersfield makes sense for international students as every year we welcome students from over 130 countries worldwide. 
They come because of our academic reputation, the range of courses on offer, and the track records of our successful students, with a graduate employment rate of around 94%. 
We are a friendly and student-centred university. 
Most of our courses offer the opportunity to get involved with industry, from sponsored projects and guest lectures, to internships and work placements. 
Many of our full-time degree courses include the option of an internship where you will spend a year on a paid work placement gaining the skills employers are looking for as well as gaining (on average) a better degree classification. 
That is why we are in the top ten (England) for paid placements (internships). 
The University has placed students with many international companies around the world, including Microsoft, Panasonic, Ferrari, BMW, Bosch, Intel, Motorola and many more. 
A continuing programme of campus development (we’ll have spent nearly £160 million over the last ten years) ensures that you have access to some of the best facilities and equipment in the country. 
In addition to developing your academic abilities, Huddersfield has a dynamic, creative and cultural mix with a strong reputation for student safety and is a great place for study and play. 
Our international student societies allow you to meet other students from your country and to celebrate your culture on campus. 
A year-round campus events programme enhances your UK student experience with food festivals, sports competitions and cultural visits. 
A dedicated international student experience manager is on campus with his team to look after you. 
Our award-winning Careers Department helps you to find part-time employment while you are studying, as well as preparing you for your first graduate job. 
Over the years the University has won a number of awards:
• 1st in the world for the international student experience (ISB 2011)
• Entrepreneurial University of the Year (THE 2012) 
• Top 10 in England for Teaching Quality (Sunday Times 2013)
• University of the Year (THE 2013) 
• 2nd in the UK and 4th in the world for the international student experience (ISB 2015)
• Voted the best place for international students to live in the UK (ISB 2015)
Measured on the international stage, we are a QS 4 stars University, with 5 stars (the maximum) for Employability, Teaching Excellence, Facilities, Internationalization and Access to the University. 
Huddersfield is a successful, innovative and modern international University with excellent facilities and many outstanding research teams. 
Choose to study at the University of Huddersfield and, not only will we look after you, you’ll also benefit from our commitment to develop you as an outstanding professional of the future, achieving your employment goals.