Living and studying in the UK
Learn more about living and studying in the UK
With diverse landscapes, a vibrant cultural offer and the chance to make friends from all over the world, time spent in the UK will be life-changing.
Find out what it’s like to live and study in the UK and get ready to enjoy the experience.
The UK regions
The UK is made up of four countries – England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland - each of them with their own distinct cultures and places to explore. 
From bustling cities to snow-capped mountains, rolling green hills to highlands and islands, the UK is beautiful and exploring is a must. 
Its relatively small size and good transport links mean that you can see a lot while you are here.
Student life
The UK offers an amazing student life that can be tailored to suit your own tastes. 
You’ll find an endless number of ways to enjoy yourself, learn new things and make friends.
At the beginning of term universities hold a ‘Welcome Week’, often called ‘Freshers’ Week’, to welcome new students. 
During this time university clubs and societies hold events and parties to look for new members. 
It’s a great way to find out what's on and join anything that interests you.
Most universities have a huge selection of clubs and societies, so there are activities to suit everyone. 
Whether you want to discuss politics, learn how to bake, join a band or go scuba diving, you’re sure to find something that appeals to you.
As well as meeting like-minded people and having loads of fun, joining clubs and societies can be a great way to gain experience and add more soft skills to your CV. 
Many societies offer opportunities to organise events, raise money for charity or do some volunteering, all of which are sure to stand you in good stead when you start applying for jobs.
The UK weather
The UK is often associated with rain, but this is because the weather can be unpredictable. 
The rain doesn't come all in one season – it can come at any time of year, and on any day. 
You might experience beautiful sunshine, blustering winds and drizzling rain – all in one afternoon!
But with the right clothes and the right attitude, you can enjoy the UK, whatever the weather. 
There’s not much better than lazing by the river in the sunshine, dancing in the mud at a music festival, or heading out for a snowball fight.
All religions welcome
Although the UK’s official religion is Christianity, the UK is a multi-faith society where other religions are widely welcomed.
In the UK, it is against the law to discriminate against anyone because of their race, nationality, or religion. 
-You will be respected for your own beliefs and will be expected to respect other people’s beliefs in return.
Study UK: Discover You
Do you want to learn more about living and studying in the UK? 
If so then visit Study UK: Discover You - the British Council’s official website about studying in the UK for international students.