Your results – when and how to get your score
When will I get my IELTS results?
You won’t have to wait long for your IELTS test results. 
You can log in to the Test Taker Portal 13 calendar days after your test and preview your results. 
IELTS Results remain online for 28 days but should not be used as an official confirmation of your performance. 
We will send out the Test Report Form (TRF), a paper copy of your IELTS test score, via mail delivery 13 days after the test date. 
Please allow at least three days for the delivery. 
IELTS results will not be disclosed over the phone or through email.
We’ll send your Test Report Form (TRF) directly to the institutions you’re applying to
Institutions need original copies of your Test Report Form. 
Photocopies will not be accepted.
We can send up to five additional copies of your TRF directly to institutions you are applying to (for instance universities, immigration officers, etc.). 
If you would like us to do this, please include the relevant addresses when you book your test.
Please do not forget to give the full postal address of the institution. 
Without the complete address we are not able to check whether the institution has access to the IELTS Test Report Form Verification Service that allows it to view your results after we have submitted them electronically. 
In case they do not access this service, we will send your TRF by post.
Can I get additional copies of my IELTS results?
If you want us to send another copy of your TRF to a recognising organisation in addition to the five copies we provide, you will need to pay an administration fee of THB 500 per copy plus an extra courier fee if you require.
If your test centre has been closed, you can order additional test report forms from ielts.org.
You will need to provide the institution’s address and fill in the “Additional TRF Form”. 
and submit to British Council Siam Square or send an email to examinations@britishcouncil.or.th. 
We will then send the TRF directly to the institution.
Please note that an additional Test Report Form takes around 10 days to be processed. 
Request additional copies
What does my IELTS score mean?
You will be awarded an IELTS band score from 0-9 for each test section, which reflects your proficiency in English.
Your TRF shows a score for each of the four skills (Listening, Reading, Writing and Speaking), as well as an overall band score. 
You can score whole band scores (for example 5.0, 6.0, 7.0) or half band scores (e.g. 5.5, 6.5, 7.5) in each section of the test.
Find out more about what your score means here.
How long are my IELTS results valid for?
Organisations will usually not accept your results if they are more than two years old, unless you provide evidence that you have actively maintained or tried to improve your English since taking the test. 
The IELTS Partners cannot confirm the validity of test results that are more than two years old.
How can I get my IELTS test re-marked?
If you did not receive the score you expected, you can apply for your test to be re-marked. 
This is called an Enquiry on Results (EOR). 
You can choose which test sections you want to be re-marked and will need to request this at the test centre where you sat the test.
The fee for this service is THB 4,000, which will be refunded if your score is increased for any section of the test.
You need to apply for a re-marking no later than six weeks after the test date.
Download the Enquiry on Results Form from the download section below and submit it to the test centre where you sat the test. 
-Make sure you attach your Test Report Form and proof of payment.
Enquiries on Results take two to four weeks to complete.
Can I re-take my IELTS test?
There are no restrictions on re-taking IELTS. 
You can book a test as soon as you feel you are ready to do so.
Please note that your score is unlikely to increase unless you make a significant effort to improve your English before re-taking the test. 
Visit the preparation section to take a practice test and assess your level.