University of York
Find more information about the University of York
City/Town: York
Region: North Central
Level of study:
Pathways to higher education
Undergraduate 
Postgraduate taught course 
Postgraduate research (e.g. MPhil, PhD)
Pre-sessional English
The University of York is one of the success stories in UK higher education. 
Since the foundation in 1963, the university has powered the way to a consistently high ranking in the UK and is one of just six post-war universities to have appeared in the world top 100. 
Furthermore, the university holds a Gold Teaching Excellence Framework award, showing consistently in delivering outstanding teaching, student learning and outcomes.
A member of the elite Russell Group of universities, University of York is a dynamic, research-intensive university committed to the development of life-saving discoveries and new technologies to tackle some of the most pressing global challenges. 
The university is one of the highest ranking universities for 4-star world-leading research and top 10 university for research impact. 
There are now over 30 academic departments and research centres, over 4,000 staff and the student body has expanded to nearly 16,000 from 150 countries.
Located within walking distance of York city centre, the university's safe and attractive Heslington campus is home to the nine colleges and most of the departments. 
There are also several departments located in the city centre at the historic King's Manor.
In recent years, University of York 500m campus expansion has seen the opening of seven new buildings, increasing the capacity for student numbers and providing more world-class facilities for the 21st century. 
Sustainability plays a key role in this ambitious development.
Over 116,000 graduates from 131 countries are members of York Alumni Association, which supports active alumni groups and professional networks around the world. 
Former students of the University include Editor of The Times John Witherow; former Director-General of the BBC Greg Dyke; authors Jung Chang and Helen Dunmore; comedian Harry Enfield, and ten MPs.
