D'OVERBROECK'S
The Sixth Form at d'Overbroeck's: Our Sixth Form students are a mix of our own Year 11 students and over 130 new students each year from other schools. 
Most students are from the UK but we have a significant proportion from abroad with over 30 nationalities. 
There is a wide range of 35 A level subject choices in any combination, plus enrichment for Oxbridge/Medicine/ Law, etc. 
Teaching is interactive and motivating in small classes where students gain confidence in expressing themselves more effectively, questioning and debating. 
The Sixth Form offers a superb transition from school to university. 
Our pastoral care is regularly praised by students and parents. 
Strong in supporting and encouraging students, d'Overbroeck's is very much a 'people place' where each individual thrives.
First name terms highlight our collaborative approach, which is underpinned by a high level of mutual respect. 
Each student has a Director of Studies who meets with them individually to discuss progress. 
A busy sports and activities programme runs across the school with very strong arts, drama and music departments, with brand new facilities for performing arts in a brand new Sixth Form building.
Academic information: Excellent record of entrance to top UK (and US) universities plus drama, music and art schools. 54% A*/A at A-level.
• More than 1 in 5 examination entries gained A*
• More than half of examination entries gained A*/A
• More than one third of students gained 3 or more grade A's in their subjects
University destinations: University College London, Kings College London, Imperial College London, University of Oxford.
The International School at d'Overbroeck's: Courses available are: One year IGCSE, Two year IGCSE, and Study Abroad all taught in small classes. 
Our students are all international students from over 30 different countries. 
Students get to experience not only a home away from home, but also a British school, where they join school houses and experience various responsibility roles within the school, aimed at developing their team spirit and enhancing their confidence. 
Teachers and students are on first name terms which leads to a high level of mutual respect. 
Each student has a Pastoral guide who meets with them individually to discuss progress. 
A busy sports and activities programme run across the school with very strong arts, drama and music departments. 
All students take part in a wide range of activities aimed at confidence building, self-expression and team-working through evening, weekend activities. 
