In-vitro Fertilization (IVF)
In-vitro fertilization (IVF) is a method where sperm and egg are combined in the laboratory, and after fertilization, the embryos are then implanted into the walls of the uterus.
Who is suitable for this procedure?
A woman whose fallopian tubes are obstructed or destroyed.
A man with sperm problems, such as low sperm count and motility.
A couple who have been unable to conceive after three years and where there is no known cause for the infertility.
A couple that has undergone intrauterine insemination (IUI) and were unable to conceive.
IVF Procedure
The doctor will insert an ultrasound probe into your vagina to retrieve a suitable egg. 
Local anesthesia is administered to prevent pain. 
This procedure takes about 30 minutes and after the retrieval you will be given hormone vaginal suppositories or injections to prepare for the transfer of embryos into your uterus.
The collected eggs and sperm are combined in the laboratory. 
Fertilized eggs are then observed closely for the next two days.
The next day the fertilized egg becomes an embryo and is ready to be transferred on the third or fifth day after retrieval. 
The embryo transfer does not require that you fast, or the administration of anesthesia. 
The procedure takes 30 minutes.
Embryo Transfer
Embryo transfer can be done three or five days after fertilization.
Blastocyst transfer is a new technology where the embryos are cultured in the laboratory until they become blastocysts before they are transferred to the uterus. 
This takes five days after fertilization. 
This procedure prepares the embryo for implantation and improves the chances of pregnancy.
Day-3 embryo transfer is a method where the embryos are cultured in the laboratory until they divide into six to eight cells, which takes three days after fertilization. 
The embryo is then transferred to the uterus.
Duration of IVF Cycle
One IVF cycle takes four to six weeks to complete. 
Approximately two weeks after the embryo transfer a blood test will be done to test for pregnancy.