Allergic diseases are one of the most common conditions in children. 
They can be caused by exposure to anything from food to the environment. 
Some of the most common food allergens are cow’s milk, eggs, peanuts and seafood while common environmental allergens in Thailand are dust mites, cockroaches and pets. 
These allergic conditions can affect skin, respiratory and digestive systems.
Signs and Symptoms of Childhood Allergies
Diagnosis and Treatment of Childhood Allergies
Allergy Testing
Signs and Symptoms of Childhood Allergies
Skin
Itchy skin rashes, or dry skin, neck and flexor areas of the extremities
Skin rashes can be persistent or intermittent
Respiratory Tract
Running nose, sneezing, congestion or itchy nose
Can occur all day or at certain times of the day
Sometimes can present as chronic respiratory disease or sinusitis
Cough or shortness of breath can occur with exposure to certain allergens or in specific circumstances such as exercise or weather change
Digestive Tract
Swelling of the lips, red rash around the mouth
Nausea, spitting up and vomiting
Stomach bloating, watery stool, mucousy bloody stool
Diagnosis and Treatment of Childhood Allergies
At Bumrungrad Hospital, our team of specialists provides comprehensive diagnostic panels, tests and treatment of all childhood allergic diseases such as:
Allergic rhinoconjunctivitis,
Asthma,
Sinusitis,
Urticaria,
Atopic dermatitis,
Angioedema,
Anaphylaxis.
Allergy Testing
Bumrungrad Hospital provides a range of allergy testing, including:
Skin Test: Skin tests are the one of the most common techniques used in testing for allergies. 
We can identify which allergens are responsible for the symptoms and the results are usually available within 20 minutes.
Blood Test: Blood tests can be used as an alternative test for allergies in particular patients.
Food challenge test/ Patch test: these tests are also available in selective patients.
Lung Function Test: Lung function tests can be performed in children when asthma or other respiratory diseases are suspected.