Hair loss
What is hair loss?
Scarring - (Loss of hair follicles). 
Cutaneous lupus erythematosus and fungal kerions are the most prevalent forms of scarring alopecia, which causes permanent hair loss.
Nonscarring - (The hair follicles are still present). 
Alopeaia areata is this type, which is an autoimmune process but the cause is unknown. 
Since the hair follicles still exist, it is often reversible. 
It However, it can develop into the scarring type.
What are the causes of hair loss?
Stress, illness or surgery, prolonged fever, childbirth, emotional (psychological stress), crash dieting, etc.
Hormonal problems, hyper or hypo-thyroid hormone
Some medications
Allergic reaction to medications
Radiation Therapy
Infections: Fungal infections, Syphilis, HIV, Herpes simplex
Autoimmune disorders
Systemic and discoid lupus erythematosus
Anemia
Hair pulled too tightly by hair rollers, pigtails, and cornrows
Twisting and pulling hair out due to psychiatric problems
Genes
Risk Factor
Family history of baldness or hair loss, Advancing age (for male-pattern baldness only), pregnancy, stress, poor nutrition.
Symptoms
Alopecia symptoms depend on the type of hair loss. 
Some of more the common symptoms include: Hair recedes, hair falls out at the top of the head, hair thins, and gradual shedding and hair come out with gentle pulling. 
The common symptoms of Alopecia Areata are rapid hair loss, round or oval patches of hair loss and sometimes brittle and discolored fingernails and toenails with ridges.
Diagnosis
Physical examination and some tests may be needed, such as, tugging on the hair, biopsy of the scalp, checking hair loss on other parts of the body, and blood test to identify underlying conditions that may cause the hair loss.
Treatment
Treatments include:
Medication, anti-fungal shampoos, steroid injection.
Lifestyle changes: Be gentle with your hair, learn and practice to control your stress.
Surgery:
Hair transplant: Taking hair from the back and side of the head and transplanting in bald areas.
Scalp reduction with flaps: Cutting the scalp and pulling the areas with hair closer together.
 