With an unlocked Intel® Core™ processor and an easy-to-use overclocking toolkit, you can tune your system to deliver maximum power.12
The Rule: Maximize frequency and minimize voltage while extracting as much heat as possible so the system remains stable.
STEP 1: Set Up Hardware
1.1 - Start with a motherboard and power supply which are optimized for Intel® unlocked processors.
Select a motherboard designed specifically to enable overclocking when paired with Intel® unlocked processors. 
Utilize a robust ATX power supply which can handle the increased power draw. 
Review the disclosure about overclocking below and make sure you understand the risks.
1.2 - Apply aggressive cooling
Utilize a robust cooling solution which can cool the processor well beyond the minimum processor requirements. 
Liquid cooling is ideal, and added chassis fans will further improve overclocking potential.
STEP 2: Tweak Software Settings
2.1 - Increase power limits and Icc Max
Using BIOS or software like the Intel® Extreme Tuning Utility, increase power limits and max current/ICC limits to match the capabilities of your motherboard, power supply, and cooling solution.
2.2 - Increase frequency
Increase the ratio for the subsystem you are attempting to overclock (processor core, graphics, ring/cache). 
NOTE: The frequency is equal to ratio multiplied to the base clock. 
For example: a target frequency increase to 5,000 MHz the ratio would be 50, if base clock is at default (100MHz). 
Also note processor graphics overclocking ratio is multiplied by half of base clock.
STEP 3: Run Stress Tests
3.1 - Determine if stable
Determine if the overclocked system is reliable by running one or more stress tests to confirm system stability. 
NOTE: The Intel Extreme Tuning Utility contains several helpful stress tests and benchmarks.
3.2 - If not stable: Increase voltage
If the system was unstable during stress tests, try increasing the voltage. 
This will be required when overclocking higher than 100 to 200 MHz. 
Try increasing 5 to 10mV at a time and use the least voltage possible. 
When increasing voltage no longer improves stability, you may have reached the maximum stable frequency. 
It is recommended you select “adaptive” voltage mode before finalizing voltage settings.
Note: advanced overclockers may choose to increase voltage ahead of frequency on subsequent attempts.
3.3 - If stable: Push frequency higher or complete overclocking
If the system is stable after stress testing, then you could push for a higher frequency, in which case go back to step 2.2. If satisfied with the overclocking results, the process is complete.
STEP 4: Overclock Your Game
Congratulations! You have successfully overclocked your system and ensured stability.