Work and play in high resolution with Intel® UHD Graphics, Iris® graphics, and Iris® Plus graphics. 
Watch captivating 4K Ultra HD (UHD) video on up to three screens, edit photos and videos like a pro, and immerse yourself in vividly rendered, seamless 3D gameplay - all with the added power boost of an Intel® Core™ processor. 
Intel® Graphics Technology brings stunning visuals to thinner and lighter portable devices, like laptops, 2 in 1s, and desktop computers.
Graphics for a Billion
This is the Odyssey: Intel graphics’ epic journey in defining the next era of visual computing. 
We’re developing a revolutionary new graphics architecture that scales exponentially from consumer notebooks to data centers. 
This commitment requires engineering excellence and a fearless approach, but also includes a heightened need to engage and listen to tech enthusiast communities around the world to keep us on the right track. 
Come and define a better visual experience for a billion people with us.
Take the Guess Work Out of Game Tuning
Our engineers extensively test the latest games to arm you with optimized in-game settings for your particular Intel graphics system. 
Grab the latest Launch Driver and visit gameplay.intel.com to get recommended settings. 
Built to be user-friendly and visually-stunning, our Intel® Graphics Command Center makes it easy to understand and fine-tune settings for your favorite games as well as to customize color settings and display configurations. 
Available for 6th Gen Intel® Core™ processors and newer.
This Is Brilliance
Watching content with Intel® Graphics Technology will change your perspective forever. 
View stunning 4K UHD video, play games with even more intensity, and immerse yourself completely in up to four angles of the same event with multi-screen capability. 
Never watch on anything less again.
Iris® Graphics Power Great Experiences
When you use Iris® graphics and Iris® Plus graphics, you're working smarter, playing harder and seeing the whole world in high resolution knowing you are using a powerful Intel® Core™ processor with enhanced media conversion and fast frame rates that deliver picture perfect performance, every time.
Remarkable Performance
Get blazing fast performance with an Intel® Core™ processor equipped with Iris® graphics and Iris® Plus graphics—up to 12% better than mobile processors without Iris® graphics.
Experience stunning gameplay in up to 1080p, and enjoy the visual performance you need for a seamless video and photo editing experience. 
Whether you're a media creator or a gamer, fantastic new experiences await.