Thinking about getting a new computer, but not sure how to download music onto it?
Don’t despair.
There are a variety of ways to get new music on to your computer or other device so you can listen to your favorite music any time you’re in the mood.
You have two options:
You can download music directly to your device, or;
You can use a streaming or cloud-based service to listen to music that acts like a custom radio station of just your favorite tunes.
Each method has its pros and cons.
How to Download Music
Downloading means it takes up space on your device, but it's always available whether you are online or not. 
This solution works great when you're traveling or where you might not have a reliable (or free) Internet connection. 
With no worries about connectivity, you can relax and enjoy the music.
A couple of options for downloading music free are MP3Jam*, and Frostwire*. 
Great apps and easy to work with. Just download the app, search for your favorite music, then download your favorite songs or albums to your device. Now you are ready to listen and enjoy.
How to Stream Music
Streaming gives you access to an infinite playlist and some of the most popular sites to stream music from are Pandora*, and Spotify*. 
Being able to listen to whatever you want is great, but if you don’t have an Internet connection, it’s a no go.
For your Kindle*, you can use the Pandora app if you’re on a Wi-Fi network. 
That way you can listen to music while you’re reading an ebook without worrying about the relatively small storage capacity of the Amazon Kindle devices.
On the iPad* there are a number of options: You can use iTunes* to listen to purchased music or stream music directly from Pandora or Spotify. 
There are also tons of Internet-based radio stations. 
An app like I Heart Radio* lets you listen to your favorite radio stations without a tuner, whether it’s island music from Miami, indie rock from Los Angeles, or jazz from New Orleans.
An iPhone* works exactly like an iPad, so if you're online or want to use your network, you can use Pandora, Spotify, or Internet radio. 
Have music downloaded? iTunes works great, especially in shuffle mode.
If you have a smartphone with Android*, it is mostly the same except there is no iTunes. 
Instead, you can also use apps like JetAudio* or PowerAmp* in addition to Pandora, and Spotify. It is just as easy, and you can still grab I Heart Radio if that's your preference.
Downloading or Streaming: The Choice Is Yours
If you want to listen to music, there really are a lot of great options, whether you're on a smartphone, tablet, or the newest 2 in 1 device. 
Happy Listening!