Utilization of Rice Husk Ash-based Geopolymer in Hollow Load-bearing Concrete Masonry Block
This research aims to study the effects of aggregate content, sodium hydroxide (NaOH) concentration and curing temperature on compressive strength and water absorption of load-bearing geopolymer concrete block. 
Original coarse rice husk ash blended with fly ash at the percentage by weight of 50 : 50 was used as a binder. 
Sodium silicate (Na2SiO3) and sodium hydroxide (NaOH) solutions were also mixed with the binder to produce geopolymer concrete block. 
NaOH solution concentrations were varied at 12, 14, 16, and 18 molars. 
Dust limestone was also used as an aggregate in the mixture at various weight ratios between the binder (rice husk ash blended with fly ash) to aggregate of 1 : 4, 1 : 6 and 1 : 8. 
The geopolymer concrete blocks were produced by using the Cinva-Ram machine. 
The specimens were then arranged into two groups at the temperatures of 25째C (room temperature) and 65째C for the first 24-hour curing and then all the specimens were cured in room temperature until the testing ages. 
The geopolymer concrete block specimens were tested for compressive strength at 7, 14, and 28 days and its water absorption was tested at 28 days. 
The results showed that higher NaOH solution concentration led to higher compressive strength and lower water absorption of geopolymer concrete block. 
These effects were evidently found in geopolymer concrete blocks with low aggregate content than in those with high aggregate content. 
Increase of aggregate content in the mixture also decrease compressive strength of geopolymer concrete block. 
In addition, geopolymer concrete blocks, which were cured at 65째C for 24 hours apparently yielded higher compressive strength than those cured at 25째C (room temperature). 
Besides, high curing temperature has a greatter effect to increase compressive strength of geopolymer concrete block with lower NaOH concentration than that with higher NaOH concentration.
