Feasibility of Electric Bus Implementation for Long-distance Public Transportation
This study purposes to delve into electric bus feasibility for long-distance transport services. 
The investigation was conducted through collecting specific information, surveying and gathering opinions from those involved in promoting the wider use of electric vehicles for provincial public transportation. 
The economic optimum analysis in the investment was explored through comparisons of three inter-provincial transit routes: Bangkok–Pattaya, Bangkok–Hua Hin and Bangkok–Nakhon Ratchasima. 
The study results are as follows: First, the government has a measure relevant to promoting Thailand as an Asian hub for electric automobile manufacturing, putting efforts to foster domestic use as well as vehicle production by Thai entrepreneurs. 
This measure supports investment, research and experimental development carried out under the project. 
Second, regarding the implementation and putting transit electric buses into service operations, restrictions can typically be found in distance limitations coupled with a low limit of battery storage and charging capacity. 
Third, current charging systems encompass in-depot, fast charging and battery replacement solutions. 
Fourth, operators seem to be interested in the future deployment of electric buses; nevertheless, ongoing concerns fall in the issues of cost-effectiveness, bus capacity, maintenance and the amount of recharging time at each stop. 
Finally, preferences of electric buses in public transport can reduce reliance on imported petroleum and help eliminate pollutant emissions in combustion processes. 
Still, it is not deemed the most economically efficient means when compared to their gasoline- and diesel-powered counterparts, given the oil price set at 23.50 baht and electricity price around 5 baht per kWh. 
Policy support measures can be determined into 3 major phases. 
Phase 1 (B.E. 2560–2561) features the readiness of the infrastructure needed for electric vehicles in service as to support efficient interprovincial transportation. 
Phase 2 (B.E. 2562–2564) outlines activities and development of technology, legislation, funding opportunities along with personnel competencies. 
The final phase (B.E. 2565–2579) stresses on the widespread electric vehicle adoption for further facilitating long-distance travel.


