Saving for Retirement | Krungthai-AXA
Krungthai-AXA Life is committed to providing you a retirement plan with financial stability so that you can continue to fulfill your dreams after retirement. 
Retirement giver the opportunity to finally do whatever you love. 
Whether that involves a world trip or living with your beloved ones, we can help you achieve your dreams. 
Our retirement plan will allow you to spend your golden years happily with your friends and family with a worry free.
iGen
Tax Planning with a Short-Term Guaranteed Level Premium Life Insurance
Read More 
198% of sum insured value at policy maturity date
10 years protection for fixed rate 6 years premium payment
Tax Deduction : Enjoy the benefits from saving and tax deduction
iPlus
A cost-effective way to save with additional protection coverage
Read More 
Easy planning for short-term saving 6 years of payment for 10 years of coverage
Total minimum benefit is 191% of sum assured
Additional benefits from policy dividends
iWealthy
Saving for success in wealth management: To increase financial value and Protect your family’s wealth for many generations to come
Read More 
Easy to invest with regular premium; Investing regularly and continuously which provides greater investment protection
Flexible investment and protection ratio; Adjust your premium for investment and protection to get preferable return and protection
Greater benefit with Loyalty Bonus after the 6th policy year as 0.2% of past 12 months’ average redemption value, annually, Starting from the end of 6th policy year
PR60
Enjoy your savings when retire. 
Meet all your needs for retirement
Read More 
Guaranteed increasing cash payment. 
0.1% of sum assured will be paid starting from the end of policy year 2. 0.1% of sum assured will be added each year until it reaches 1% (year 11), and 1% will be paid annually thereafter (until age 59)
Guaranteed payment at retirement. 
A lump sum payment will be paid when you reach age 60 as a gift for your retirement
Dividend
iRetire
Let your happiness continue in “Retirement”
Read More 
Options to start planning for your future after retirement: iRetire 1-Single Premium Payment, iRetire 5-5-year Premium payment
Up to 20% annuity of Sum assured (iRetire5), payable either monthly or annually to suit your needs
Tax Deduction Benefits Up to 200,000 baht*
Get an online quote and free consultation today!
A simple way to get a quote and speak to our experts in just a few minutes
See all products Get a Quote
Product Recommendation
Health & Disability | iHealthy
The new definition of Critical Illness insurance that covers up to 100 critical illnesses from early to intermediate to severe stages
Read more
Income Protection | iProtect S
Show the one you love that you truly care with a gift of financial security Setting up your in heritance today with iProtect S to pass on financial security from generation to generation
Read more
First step of working life | LifePlus+ Saver
Financial concerns usually increase as you grow older. 
LifePlus+ Saver provide increasing life coverage until the end of the premium payment period