We here at Krungthai-AXA Life Insurance know you value your and your family’s health more than anything else, that’s why we’re proud to offer you Life Insurance policies that match your exact needs, so that you can be free from worry when the unexpected happens.
We’re also determined to help you plan & achieve your financial goals with savings insurance policies that serve your short, medium, long-term and retirement goals. 
Let Krungthai-AXA Life Insurance be with you for your proud graduation, wonderful marriage, happy children, and fulfilling retirement - with our range of policies to care for you and your loved ones’ every step, we’re here for life.
Individual
Because we wish to be a part of your health & financial success, we are proud to offer you Life Insurance policies that match your age, needs and your every goal whether it be retirement, health insurance and protection, savings and investment, or income protection - with personalised packages and coverage tailor made just for you.
Read More
Business
Krungthai-AXA Life provides Group Life and Health Insurance package to take care of your employees. 
The package was exclusively designed for all types and sizes of organizations. 
Employees can rest assured that they will be well treated and taken care of in every minute of their working life. 
The better wellness programme is, the more efficient your employees are.
Read More
Get an online quote and free consultation today!
A simple way to get a quote and speak to our experts in just a few minutes
Understand your needs Get a Quote
Product Recommendation
Health & Disability | iHealthy
The new definition of Critical Illness insurance that covers up to 100 critical illnesses from early to intermediate to severe stages
Read more
Income Protection | iProtect S
Show the one you love that you truly care with a gift of financial security Setting up your in heritance today with iProtect S to pass on financial security from generation to generation
Read more
Short-Term Saving | iGen
Tax planning with a short-term guaranteed level premium life insurance. 
Total guaranteed benefits at policy maturity date 198%