At Krungthai-AXA Life, we understand that you want to be secured in the face of uncertainty to take care of your loved ones at every stage of life
Krungthai-AXA Life works directly with you to understand your needs and provide the best solution as your life changes. 
You will live a worry-free life and will always be ready for any unexpected events. 
We offer the best solution to support your financial goals and turn your dreams into reality by providing a wide range of savings and investment plans and flexible options of retirement products
Let us be with you at every step of your journey- graduating from college, getting married, having a child, caring for parents, planning for retirement. 
As your life changes, our solutions will change with you, thus, giving you the confidence you need to look after the ones you love
Life, Accident and Critical Insurance
Krungthai-AXA Life Insurance’s  responsibility is to provide you with valued protection, coverage and a professional service. 
With full coverage for life, accident and critical illness, we ensure that you and your loved ones can enjoy life with peace of mind.
Read More
Health Insurance and Hospital Income
Our inclusive health plan will ensure that you and your family are safeguarded financially, if hospitalized. 
The medical expenses will no longer be your concern. 
An insurance plan to compensate the shortfall of your daily income during hospitalization is also available for you.
Read More
Saving for Retirement
Krungthai-AXA Life is committed to providing you a retirement plan with financial stability so that you can continue to fulfill your dreams after retirement. 
Our retirement plan will allow you to spend your golden years happily with your friends and family with a worry free.
Read More
Saving for Legacy
Throughout your working life, you have accumulated a certain wealth.  
In case of an unexpected event, you need to protect this wealth so it can be passed on to your loved ones. 
Krungthai-AXA Life is ready to be a part of your inheritance plan so you can safeguard and protect your fortune for your family’s future
Read More
Get an online quote and free consultation today!
A simple way to get a quote and speak to our experts in just a few minutes
See all products Get a Quote
Product Recommendation
Health & Disability | iHealthy
The new definition of Critical Illness insurance that covers up to 100 critical illnesses from early to intermediate to severe stages
Read more
Income Protection | iProtect S
Show the one you love that you truly care with a gift of financial security Setting up your in heritance today with iProtect S to pass on financial security from generation to generation
Read more
Short-Term Saving | iGen
Tax planning with a short-term guaranteed level premium life insurance. 
Total guaranteed benefits at policy maturity date 198%