2016 Annual Report
Krungthai-AXA Life Insurance PCL (KTAXA) is pleased to inform our shareholders regarding the Company’s performance of 2016
The performance in 2016 received the total premium Bt55.8 billion, with first year premiums received of Bt14.9 billion. 
The Bancassurance contributed Annualised New Business Premiums of Bt6.4 billion, Agency generated Bt6.1 billion and Corporate Solutions delivered Bt227 million.
In 2017, KTAXA will continue our focus and commitment towards being a “Customer Centric” organisation with thevision to “Empower People to Live a better Life”. 
We plan to devote further resources towards “Customer Centricity” by improving customer segmentation and campaign management ultimately leading to improved customers’ satisfaction and increased profitability. 
In addition, we launched four new core values including “Customer First”, “Courage”, “Integrity” and “ONE Heart” which KTAXA believe will create a culture driven by innovation, inclusion and trust at KTAXA.
Moreover, KTAXA will continue to remain competitive and best-in-class by being proactive to anticipate its customers’ needs through its Transformation and Agile methodologies. 
This strategy enable by simplifying our working processes, and modernisation of our technology capabilities. 
It also leverages digital practices as key enablers of this cultural change, and change our way of working. 
The objectives are to give our employees better tools and work environment, including quicker feedback loops from our distributors and customers.
On behalf of the Board of Directors, I would like to thank you customers, shareholders, its employees, the executives and employees for the support and trust in KTAXA for the past years. 
KTAXA will strive to develop the life insurance industry under the ethics and good governance principle together with the investment in the human and social environment as well as in the wealth of communities to stand beside our customers and Thailand in the forthcoming years.
Mr. Sirote Swasdipanich
Chairman of Krungthai-AXA Life Insurance Public Company Limited
For more details : 2016 Annual Report