Krungthai-AXA Life aims to empower people to live a better life
Krungthai-AXA Life aims to empower people to live a better life
Krungthai-AXA Life Insurance Public Company Limited’s total premium Bt 55.8 billion, with first year premiums received of Bt 14.9 billion.
The total invested assets were Bt192.7 billion with the investment portfolio mix remaining relatively stable with 6% equities, 85% bonds, 4% property funds, 1% short-term deposits, and 4% others, with investment returns being in line with KTAXA’s expectations despite the low interest rate environment and challenging year.
David Korunic, Chief Executive Officer of Krungthai-AXA Life Insurance Public Company Limited (KTAXA) said, “In 2017, we will continue our focus and commitment towards being a customer centric organisation with the vision to empower people to live a better life. 
We plan to devote further resources towards ‘Customer Centricity’ by improving customer segmentation and campaign management ultimately leading to improved customers’ satisfaction and increased profitability. 
In addition, we launched four new core values including “Customer First”, “Courage”, “Integrity” and “ONE Heart” which we believe will create a culture driven by innovation, inclusion and trust at KTAXA. 
Meanwhile, we will continue to keep our strategic focus on the Protection & Health business, and expand and develop our investment products. 
Furthermore, we have gradually transformed and developed the existing operations and communications processes into the digital ecosystem. 
We believe that technology innovation and advancements are driving all aspects of the business, not only the product division”.
KTAXA will continue to remain competitive and best-in-class by being proactive to anticipate its customers’ needs through its Transformation and Agile methodologies. 
KTAXA believes that the quality of its employees is key to its success and a source of competitive advantage. 
Khun Prettaya Sutchasila was thereby appointed to the newly created role of “Chief Customer Officer – CCO” earlier in 2017 and her main focus will be to create a seamless customer management process and in addition, be responsible to manage three key areas including Customer Experience, Digital Experience, and Brand & Communications. 
Khun Prettaya Sutchasila remains a key member of the Executive Committee.
Poramasiri Manolamai, Chief Distribution Officer said “In 2016, bancassurance contributed Annualised New Business Premiums of Bt6.4 billion, Agency generated Bt6.1 billion and Corporate Solutions delivered Bt227 million. 
Last year, we have also started to sell some products through the online channel which are simple and easy to understandbyall our customers. 
These products consisted of iGen, iFine and iProtect S.
This year, we plan to launch a wide-range of Health, Protection and Investment products that are designed specific to customers’ needs. 
In January, we introduced a new health product called “iHealthy” and recently launched “iInvest”; the new Unit-Linked product that provides customers with long-term investment insurance that promotes wealth accumulation while also providing health protection coverage. 
KTAXA also recognises the opportunities in the ‘inclusive and diversity’ market and therefore plans to launch a new product for this niche market later this year”.
In distribution, people development is key to success and reflecting KTAXA’s commitment to people development, the company has recently rearranged some of its senior distribution team members, in line with their long term professional career development.
• Dr Uqkrit Sridaromont was appointed to the role of “Chief Agency Officer – CAO”. 
He has a strong agency experience and background and has worked closely across all distribution channels for almost 9 years with KTAXA as its Chief Distribution Training Officer.
• Khun Pornsak Suwannatup was appointed to the role of “Chief Distribution Training Officer – CDTO”. 
He has, during the course of his career, acquired a deep understanding of the sales teams and will contribute his experience and knowledge in developing KTAXA’s distribution teams to the utmost level.
Currently KTAXA’s Academy has 5 academies across Thailand and plans to announce its expansion plans later this year tothe lower northern area in Phitsanulok province. 
There are more than 70 trainers providing real career development opportunities and professional courses which are in line with the company’s strategic positioning in people development. 
The company not only provides its distributors with the necessary key skills and expertise, but alsohas equipped them with advanced digital tools including iPro, iSocial and iConnect, which enable them to achieve an increased level of professionalism thereby resulting in higher customer satisfaction.
Prettaya Sutchasila, Chief Customer Officer said “I would like to share some examples of the company’s achievements in 2016. 
One of our very proud moments during the year was when the AXA Group received global recognition as the #1 Global Insurance Brandfor the 8th consecutive year and the top 3 global financial services brands by Interbrands. 
The Net Promoter Score (NPS) indicated KTAXA as the most preferred brand amongst competitors in Thailand. 
Towards the end of the year we were ranked by the AXA Group as the #1 company in terms of corporate responsibility in Asia and the 2ndon a global scale. 
AXA’s corporate responsibility index is measured using an internal version of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, an extra-financial assessment based on the assumption that managing risks deriving from economic, environmental, and social developments creates long term value for the company and society. 
These achievements promote KTAXA’s brand by highlighting our commitment toinvesting significantly in the human and social environment as well as in the wealth of communities, with an impact both on the society and the bottom line of KTAXA.”
David Korunic added “In December 2016, the company was awarded the Global Award for Management Practices in the Employment of People with Disability1,recognised as one of the top 25 companies worldwide in leading the diversity conversation2, and also awarded as the ‘Best Life Insurance Company in Thailand’3. 
These accolades acknowledge and recognise our commitment to business excellence across every aspect of the business and encourages us to grow and develop the company as we celebrate our 20th anniversary in Thailand. 
I have no doubt that 2017 will be another challenging year, not only for us but for all businesses. 
That said, I am still confident in the growth opportunities in the insurance industry in Thailand.”