Krungthai-AXA Life opens new Academy and branch at Surat Thani province to support business expansion
Mr. Roger Deacon, Chief Distribution Officer of Krungthai-AXA Life Insurance revealed that the company has recently opened Krungthai-AXA Life Academy and branch at Surat Thani province to support business expansion in upper Southern area, to enhance and develop distributors for all channels as well as provide more convenience with the best quality of service to customers.
“Krungthai-AXA Life Academy is an essential part of company’s strategy under Thailand Agency Blueprint (TAB) value proposition that will build Krungthai-AXA Life distributors to be No.1 of Thailand Life Insurance which includes; best career, best compensation, and best support.
These regional academies will not only help building high quality sale force of our three distribution channels, agency, bancassurance and alternative distribution, but will also strengthen our commitment to all sale force that company will be a part of career building and fully support them. 
Besides, opening new branch of Krungthai-AXA Life aims to provide easier access and more understanding to our customers in upper southern area include faster responding to our customer’s needs which align with our key strategy in Customer Centricity,” said Roger.
In term of performance as at August 2014, the record for new business premiums was at Bt 10,368m. 
This successful performance reflects the effective and high quality of Krungthai-AXA Life Academy which builds all distribution channels deeply understand in core of insurance business easier and also the success of selling process thru “Customer Choice”.
Dr. Uqkrit Sridaromont, Chief Training Officer added that this year the company projects to increase the number of trainers to 100 trainers to manage the manpower growth nationwide as well as provide best support to enhance distributor’s knowledge and skills to succeed in their sustainable career and service to our customer.
Besides the objectives in development of distribution channels in upper Southern region and support the expansion of business in this area, the company aims that this Southern Academy will be the center of three major social and company’s contributions: career opportunity, recruitment, and training & development. 
This regional academy will also help maximizing sale growth as well as increasing productivity to better quality sales and activity management. 
This will enable Krungthai- AXA Life to become the preferred company of distributors to work with and customers to buy from high quality and professional distributors.
“ Krungthai-AXA Life focus more on intensive courses as to provide knowledge for many thousands of quality sale people and managers to make them become the professional insurer and sustainable growth in insurance business thru our professional trainers who expertise in knowledge and skills of life insurance business,” said Dr.Uqkrit.
Krungthai-AXA Life Academy is now ready in several regions of Thailand. 
For Bangkok, you can visit Phaya Thai branch, Northeastern region at Khon Kaen, Southern region at Had Yai, Songkhla and Surat Thani, and Northern region at Chiang Mai. 
For those who would like to become a part of Krungthai-AXA Life family and more information on products and services, please call 1159 or visit www.krungthai-axa.co.th