Life, Accident and Critical Insurance | Krungthai-AXA
Krungthai-AXA Life Insurance’s  responsibility is to provide you with valued protection, coverage and a professional service. 
We are committed to understanding your individual needs and providing insurance plans to suit your requirements at each of life’s stages. 
With full coverage for life, accident and critical illness, we ensure that you and your loved ones can enjoy life with peace of mind.
LifePlus+ Saver
A savings plan for first-time workers who want to develop good savings habits while increasing life coverage to suit their lifestyle.
Read More 
In case of an unexpected event, receive total premium paid plus 100% of sum assured
Plan your savings with two coverage plans options
From 4th year onward, Receive cash payout as a reward
iProtect
Because certainty can sometimes be uncertain "iProtect" leaves a heritage that ensures the future of your "loved ones".
Read More 
Coverage of up to 120 times sum assured from the first day of your premium payment
Minimum premium of hundreds per month (depending on age and gender of the insured)
Premium payment period from 5 years, or 10 years, or up to age 85
iProtect S
Show the one you love that you truly care with a gift of financial security Setting up your in heritance today with iProtect S to pass on financial security from generation to generation
Read More 
Coverage can be up to 31 times of your premium from the first day of your premium payment*
Build your millions baht inheritance from only 88 baht/day of premium*
Only 10 years of premium payment for protection up to age 85
iCare
The new definition of Critical Illness insurance that covers up to 100 critical illnesses from early to intermediate to severe stages, allows multiple claims of up to 6 times sum assured, and assures that your policy will remain in effect even when diagnosed with a critical illness.
Read More 
Coverage of up to 100 illnesses from early to severe stage
Multiple claim benefit of up to 5 times sum assured
Additional 10 juvenile illnesses (total of 6 times of sum assured for children aged 1 month - 18 years old)
iShield
iShield Extend the good times, with continuous critical illness cover. 
An alternative to help protect you and your family’s happiness from critical illness. 
Plan now, do not let critical illness devastate your life.
Read More 
Short premium payment period and level premium to support longer happier times
70 Critical illness covered by iShield, both early stage and major stage critical illness. 
20 Early Stage Critical illnesses and50 Major Stage Critical illnesse
Basic policy premium is tax deductible (Subject to revenue department announcement)
Get an online quote and free consultation today!
A simple way to get a quote and speak to our experts in just a few minutes
See all products Get a Quote
Product Recommendation
Health & Disability | iHealthy
The new definition of Critical Illness insurance that covers up to 100 critical illnesses from early to intermediate to severe stages
Read more
Income Protection | iProtect S
Show the one you love that you truly care with a gift of financial security Setting up your in heritance today with iProtect S to pass on financial security from generation to generation
Read more
Short-Term Saving | iGen
Tax planning with a short-term guaranteed level premium life insurance. 
Total guaranteed benefits at policy maturity date 198%