You will look and feel younger if you follow these routines   
You will look and feel younger if you follow these routines
By Kamonchanok Parnjai
Want to look younger and more beautiful? 
You have to take care of yourself with discipline from morning until bed time. 
If you follow these suggestions, I guarantee you will be more youthful from now.
1. Take good care of your teeth.
Beautiful and white teeth make you look younger right away, but more important is the mouth. 
It is the first point of entry for food entering our bodies. 
Recent research provides convincing evidence that oral health and overall health are inextricably linked that what’s good for our mouth is also good for the rest of the body we work so hard to keep fit and healthy. 
This is the first step to maintain a youthful appearance.
2. Drink one glass of water every hour until sunset
Water washes away toxins? 
from our bodies. 
It replenishes all cells, especially collagen, and makes muscles stronger which makes you look younger. 
Water stimulates the cardiovascular system.
I choose to drink one glass of water every hour until sunset. 
If you follow this rule, you will get the full amount of water that your body needs. 
Be careful, if you don’t drink enough water, your blood will thicken, reducing circulation.
3. Meditation 20-30 minutes per day.
Forget about meditating for periods of 5 to 10 days a year. 
If you want to get the full benefits from meditation, you have to meditate every day, 20-30 minutes per day. 
My experience has taught me what research has proven, meditation can refresh the body for a full 3 hours. 
The more you practice in the morning and before sunset, the better.
4. Exercise 30 to 40 min.
30 to 40 min of exercise per day has anti-aging benefits and makes you years younger on a cellular level. 
Exercise makes you more energetic and younger. 
People who exercise are more confident and happier. 
Exercise is the secret to treating virtually every disease, even senility. 
Weight-lifting exercises will keep the body muscles toned.
5. Sleep early and sleep deep.
If we choose to sleep at the right time, in a dark and quiet room, free from noise and electrical devices, our bodies renew themselves at night. 
Then you wake up more beautiful and feeling younger.
6. Stop consuming sugar
Stop consuming sugar, rice, rice noodles, noodles made from flour, alcohol, cake and other foods high in sugar. 
All these make you look and feel older. 
The sweeter, the older.
7. Reduce stress ASAP
When you feel stressed, just exercise or do some outdoor activity. 
It is important to practice positive thinking and limit connect with people who bring negative thoughts with them.
Try adjusting your daily routine just the next 3 months, you will see the results obviously.
Recommend Products
iHealthy
iHealthy Worldwide Healthcare that meets all your needs
Benefits
Provide lump-sum coverage for in-patient treatments of up to maximum Bt100 million per year
Live a worry-free life from critical illness with Coverage for Radiotherapy, chemotherapy and Kidney dialysis
Welcome Mommy to-be with coverage for pregnancy, childbirth, pre and post natal complications and newborn accommodation