Krungthai-AXA Life has created the “Krungthai-AXA Care Khun Kwa Krai’’ program
which is a medical assistance service that Krungthai-AXA offers to its valuable customers who are diagnosed and/or have the following conditions of Orthopedics and Spine, Chronic Diseases and Cancer. 
Other conditions will be included in the future, but you can register your interest to join the program now.
Fill out your information to use the service
Krungthai-AXA Care Khun Kwa Krai
Is a medical partner and consultation service for customers undergoing certain active conditions. 
Our medical team will offer helpful and appropriate care/treatment options such as linking customers to recommended specialists; guiding customers based on their medical needs; ensuring consistency and continuity in the customers’ care; suggesting appropriate alternative treatment/service that matches with customers’ benefits so that our customers can return to their healthy lifestyle as soon as possible.
Objectives
Customers receive appropriate health information, services and treatment options that match each customer’s condition and benefits.
Customers receive appropriate treatment and care so they can quickly return to their everyday activities.
Customers will gain knowledge and understand how to care for themselves so they can prevent future illnesses.
Customers receive faster services from our provider network.
Complete the form to receive promotion
Name-Surname * 
Mobile Phone * 
Policy Number or ID Card Number 
Example: 505-XXXXXXX or 357XXXXXXXXXX
Email 
Submit
Submitting
Thank you
We have received your information. 
Our representative will contact you back at the given number for insurance confirmation.
Fail to submit information
Try again
Krungthai-AXA Care Khun Kwa Krai
Is a medical partner and consultation service for customers undergoing certain active conditions. 
Our medical team will offer helpful and appropriate care/treatment options such as linking customers to recommended specialists; guiding customers based on their medical needs; ensuring consistency and continuity in the customers’ care; suggesting appropriate alternative treatment/service that matches with customers’ benefits so that our customers can return to their healthy lifestyle as soon as possible.
Objectives
Customers receive appropriate health information, services and treatment options that match each customer’s condition and benefits.
Customers receive appropriate treatment and care so they can quickly return to their everyday activities.
Customers will gain knowledge and understand how to care for themselves so they can prevent future illnesses.
Customers receive faster services from our provider network.
Example of hospitals participating in our program
Conditions of Participation
- Krungthai-AXA Health policy holder with an “Active” status
- Krungthai-AXA Health policy holder who is diagnosed and/or have condition of Orthopedics and Spine
Chronic Diseases i.e. Poor control Hypertension, Poor control Diabetes, Thyroid
Cancer (Breast, Nasopharynx, Prostate, Uterus, Cervix)
Remark:
- We are initially targeting customers who are diagnosed and/or have condition of Orthopedics and Spine, Chronic Diseases (Poor control Diabetes, Poor control Hypertension), Cancer (Breast, Nasopharynx, Prostate, Uterus, Cervix)
- Traditional Second Medical Opinion is not included in this program.
- All customers are subjected to be evaluated by Krungthai-AXA Care Khun Kwa Krai’s team whether they can join the program and the company reserves the right of final decision.
- Krungthai-AXA Care Khun Kwa Krai’s operating Hour: Monday – Friday from 08:30 – 17:00.
- The Company reserves the right to change these terms and conditions at any time without prior notice.
- This is not part of the claim query department or call center. 
For Claim questions, please contact 1159 press 2 directly.
Get an online quote and free consultation today!
A simple way to get a quote and speak to our experts in just a few minutes
See all products Get a Quote
Product Recommendation
Health & Disability | iHealthy
The new definition of Critical Illness insurance that covers up to 100 critical illnesses from early to intermediate to severe stages
Read more
Income Protection | iProtect S
Show the one you love that you truly care with a gift of financial security Setting up your in heritance today with iProtect S to pass on financial security from generation to generation
Read more
Short-Term Saving | iGen
Tax planning with a short-term guaranteed level premium life insurance. 
Total guaranteed benefits at policy maturity date 198%