Krungthai-AXA Life, the Green Insurer – Turning the Tide on Plastic
Krungthai-AXA Life, the Green Insurer – Turning the Tide on Plastic
'Know You Can' protect our ocean life by reducing plastic
Did you know that on average, Thai people use eight plastic bags each per day, which equates to almost 200 billion bags per year! Sadly, the most affected is our sea life including whales and turtles that are often found stranded on Thai beaches with plastic clogged in their insides and hampering their mobility.
At KTAXA we take environmental protection very seriously as it is our mission to protect both our customers and the communities where we work. 
As part of our annual climate change mitigation program, we continue to invest resources into recycling and reducing plastic. 
Furthermore, in 2009 Krungthai-AXA Life made a significant decision to change its customer plastic policy folders to fabric folders which produced from Thai villagers. 
From this project we can reduce using plastic 50,000 sqm. 
per year for over 10 years. 
At a global level, AXA is encouraging companies that we invest in to change their behavior by supporting the “Plastic Solutions Investor Alliance”, a coalition of investors who collectively engage consumer goods companies on the threat posed by plastic waste and pollution.
We are hoping our customers and friends will join us in this worthwhile campaign to help make this country a better place to live and empower people to live a better life.
Understandably it would be challenging as an individual to influence the mal practices of major industries, but it is very possible to change our own behavior and actions in the following practical ways:
1. Bring your own bag when going shopping.
2. Stop buying bottled water. Keep a refillable bottle handy.
3. Bring your own Cup or Thermos to the coffee shop.
4. Buy laundry detergent in boxes, not liquid plastic containers.
5. Say no to straws.
6. Don’t use ziplock bags, use aluminum foil instead.
7. Skip the disposable razor.
8. Change from disposable to cloth diapers.
9. Buy bar soap, not liquid body wash.
10. Compost your trash, reduce your use of plastic trash bags.
Remember protecting our environment is everyone’s responsibility and it’s vital to 'Know you can' make a real difference by making some of these small lifestyle changes. 
Saving our planet now greatly impacts on future generations including our children and grand-children. 
For them to have quality of life and an easy task in maintaining and managing the environment, significant steps and measures have to be undertaken today. 
So the next time you are in a convenient store, think before you take that plastic bag or straw, and consider how your decision will help save not only our aquatic life but also ultimately preserve this wonderful planet.