AXA becomes global insurance partner of Liverpool Football Club
AXA has stepped up its commitment to redefining its relationship with customers as it joins forces with one of the most famous names in sport.
The multi-year partnership with English Premier League legends Liverpool Football Club (“Liverpool FC”) sees AXA become the club’s Official Global Insurance Partner.
In addition to providing excellent global brand visibility and raising AXA’s profile among sports fans around the world, the partnership is particularly good news for football supporters in Asia, as it includes a number of exclusive events that will take place in AXA’s core markets within the region. 
These will include various mass participation events around the region, as well as unique opportunities to get closer to the team.
Building on their shared values, AXA and Liverpool FC will create innovative experiences for clients, partners and fans in Asia, as well as making meaningful contributions to the local communities in which they both operate. 
Working closely with Liverpool FC’s players, manager, coaches and health professionals, AXA will also create unique and relevant content that will help support the shared goal of promoting a healthy lifestyle, delivering on the AXA brand purpose of empowering people to live a better life.
“I am delighted to announce this long-term partnership with Liverpool FC, which comes at a particularly exciting moment for AXA as the Best Global Brand ranking, announced by Interbrand today, recognized AXA as the #1 insurance brand for the 10th year in a row. 
Like us, Liverpool are leaders in their field, renowned for their long and proud history, strong sense of community and relentless pursuit of excellence. 
We therefore look forward towards achieving shared successes, both on and off the field, as we continue to ensure our customers will ‘never walk alone’”, said Thomas Buberl, Chief Executive Officer of AXA.
“Liverpool FC is one of the most illustrious names in the world of sport, with a huge and fiercely loyal following across Asia. 
Not only will this partnership create new opportunities for our customers, agents, employees and members of our local communities to interact with players from both the men’s and women’s teams, but it will also allow us to leverage the expertise of Liverpool FC’s world-class professional health experts and academy coaches to provide unique, money-can’t buy experiences”, added Gordon Watson, CEO of AXA in Asia.
“We are very happy to welcome such a prestigious and ambitious brand to our football family as our newest global partner and our Official Insurance Partner. 
We would like to extend our congratulations to AXA on being the number one insurance brand in the world for the 10th year running. 
With this award, AXA has continuously proven its dedication to service excellence and strives to be a true partner for life for its customers. 
As a world-leader in its industry, AXA shares our ambitions and values, which will provide the foundations for a special long-term relationship. 
Together we’ll work towards bringing to life really special experiences for our fans around the world”, said Billy Hogan, Managing Director and Chief Commercial Officer, Liverpool FC.