Many people start to be aware of Knee Osteoarthritis only when they become elders. 
It causes severe pain on knees and they might find it hard to live lives normally. 
However, majority of us might not know that the sign of the Osteoarthritis can also happen during adolescence, for instance, a cracking sound of walking and the pain from long-hour sitting in theater or on airplane. 
In fact, these symptoms imply you as one in a group of those suffering from Knee Osteoarthritis during young age.   
In brief, here are 8 bad behaviors that put you at risk of Knees Osteoarthritis, in addition, an early notice can help you adjust the legs and lower the pain.  
Sitting Cross-legged
Sitting in a cross-legged posture can put you at risk of long term condition known as Scoliosis whereas there is weight imbalance caused by bottoms movement which also makes the bone bent. 
In fact, the posture can lock the knee move motion affects the knee joint directly. 
However, mostly, the leg that crosses over the other side is always found having the pain before the other one.
Sleeping on soft mattress
Those who sleep in a fetal position or knee tucking have more chances of getting the Osteoarthritis than those sleeping with laying back posture, especially if you sleep in the fetal gesture all night in fluffy bed, the position even gives you more distortion of  knees shape.
Squat for a long time
Those who love doing several activities, such as, gardening, clothes washing or playing with pets need to be prepared for the Osteoarthritis during a young age since this posture severely squeezes the surface of the knee joint. 
The best way is to sit on 6-7 feet plastic stool chair and try to stretch the legs for muscle relaxing.
Standing on high heel all day
Particularly, wearing high heels can put your weight on both tips of the feet instead of the heel. 
Feet flexing or tension can injure your spine and knee joint by an improper position. 
Therefore, we recommend you to take them off every hour to rest the feet.
Addicting to Soft drink
Drinking 1 can of soft drink provides the body the addition of 40 milligrams of phosphorus. 
Your body has to take calcium from the bones in order to keep the balance of increased phosphorus. 
This is a reason why soft drink cause you Osteoarthritis.    
Playing Soccer
Many sports have a negative effect to your knees especially when there is an improper posture or long duration in a round. 
The soccer is the number one sport that causes players osteoarthritis. 
According to a use of knee from different types of sports tells us that “Soccer” has high chance of knee injury which then causes knee osteoarthritis.
Drinking too much coffee
Some research said caffeine in coffee might obstruct the body from absorption the calcium in food. 
It forces the body to excrete more calcium via urination. 
Every glass of coffee you have can make you lose 5 milligrams of calcium in the body.   
Being Overweight
Knee Osteoporosis refers to degeneration of the knee joint’s surface which contains thin cartilages and each of them locates at different story of knee bones. 
Accordingly, the more you weight, the more pressure on your knees which will destroy your knee joints faster. 
We do not only want you to lose your weight for the knee joints, but also for your look as well.