Danger of Diabetes Complication
Disease that Thai people should seriously focus on now is “diabetes” according to static result shows that, one-eleventh people found having the disease calculated as 9.8% of the Thai population.
As a result, Endocrinologist and Metabolic Therapist,Dr. Rattaphong jiwarangsinee has explained as follows.
In general, our body has its own mechanism process, to regulate blood sugar level, the insulin released from the pancreas is the main part where the sugar is sent to muscles, tissue and liver.
It also blocks the liver from producing the sugar.
For that reason, if the level of insulin is insufficient the blood glucose will arise or if it cannot function properly, the body ,therefore, is leaded to Insulin Resistance causing high blood sugar within the body.
90% of Diabetic Patients in Thailand Have (Type 2) Diabetes
Dr. Rattaphong explained that the diabetes is divided into four major categories which are type 1, type 2, Gestational Diabetes (diabetes during pregnancy) and the diabetes categorized as others.
The Type 2 diabetes is caused by insulin resistance (Insulin resistance) normally while eating the pancreases will produce the insulin to lower the level of blood glucose, problem is the resistance condition that causes ineffective function to the insulin as the blood sugar is not sent properly.
The sugar level then increases when it happens for a long time Glucotoxicity will be created to the body system leading to Insulin Insufficiency.
Diabetes Symptoms
The symptoms divided as follows:
High Blood Sugar - High Blood Sugar Levels cause frequent urination, frequent thirst for water, weight loss, sweet urine that attracts ants, fatigue.
However, these symptoms may be difficult to observe because they may appear delayed, therefore, patient will not be able to notice when they occur.
Symptoms of Complications – When Long-term illnesses are not treated properly.
Symptoms of complications in the organs may occur such as:
Kidney-Foamy Urine, fatigue, swollen skin, pale, nausea and renal failure.
Heart - Patients areat risk for coronary artery disease.
The symptoms may include chest pain, legs swollen and pain while laying down the body.
Eye - The disease will cause complications to the eyes with Diabetic Retinopathy, during the first stage symptoms may not be showing, but it can be detected using screening through the retina.
In fact, if its severity is harmful, there is high chance for blindness.
Foot - Foot ulcers are what common in the patients.
Some of them have it infectious which later spread to other areas quickly, the ulcers could be fatal and cause the patients death.
Nervous System - People who have been with the disease for many years could have the nerve system damaged with several serious side effects.
For example, numbness or pain that makes them feel like being stabbed by needles.
Brain – Improper Self-care of patients may cause cerebral thrombosis or stroke.
As above, there are many complications of diabetes that can affect the organs inside the body.
Accordingly, it could be difficult to observe some of the symptoms at early stage, thus, blood screening/test for glucose measuring is what can provide result that help you lower the risk for the disease.