Have you ever tried to observe yourself or people around you by checking their personalities? Sometimes they might not seem to be very attractive or charming by their improper postures, such as ,waist and unbalanced shoulders with a bending-body while walking.  
These characters can cause them Scoliosis, according to Spinal surgeon from Orthopedic Center, Phyathai 3 Hospital, Dr.Sombat Kunakornsawat said; this disease is one of the most frequently diseases found in people, majority we overlook about it. 
80-Percent of the cases has no distinct cause
Dr.Sombat explained that the Scoliosis is a medical condition in which a person’s spine bends to the side, and when it is measured by the Cobb angle, the bending can make more than 10 degree. 
However, over 80 percent of the cases has no distinct cause called as Idiopathic Scoliosis, while approximately 10 percent of people having the disease during the age of 10-15 are believed to be caused by genetic transfer. 
Simple self-observation by following these steps;
There are 2 ways to monitor yourself :
You have to stand and look back to check some abnormalities of the body, such as, an unbalanced shoulder, an unbalanced curve of the scapula or waist.
Stand up again, put your feet close together and bend your body forward,  both hands reach to the ground, this posture is called Adam’s forward bending test. 
Later, you will see that the curve of your back is unbalanced known as Rip Hump.
Not Every Case need Surgical Treatment
First of all, patients and their families should truly understand about the Scoliosis,such as, stages or phases of the disease to  support a doctor during the spinal change observation. 
Dr.Sombat stated that the patients might have to wear a brace to protect the spine, which takes about 23 hours a day; the brace is allowed to be taken off during a shower. 
In fact, this back support will be applied to those having mild scoliosis with slightly bending, at the same time there must no nerves abnormality happen to the patients. 
Moreover, for kids, they are required to wear it until their body stop developing, during that time lower an hour of wearing till the doctor confirms about their spinal conditions, for example, the bending will not be increased after, meaning they have to stop wearing it. 
In addition, for patients whose bodies have fully developed, the brace will not be used due to a full development of their bodies.
Doctor’s expertise is a key for surgical treatment
For the selection of surgery Dr. Sombat said, it is based on several factors, such as, the flexibility and the spinal curve. 
The doctor has to understand the goal of surgery by having conversation with patients and their families. 
However, the most important key is the expertise of doctor in order to provide them the best results.
At present,  the medical treatment is developed to helps process the Scoliosis treatment. 
However, the treatment will be even more effective if you are treated during  the right time.