Back pain you are facing may not just a regular pain of falling out from a pillow as this could be a sign of cervical vertebra dysfunction as it compresses on nerves causes numbness and muscular weakness. 
A doctor may provide a surgery promptly but it is not as scary as you think. 
A neurosurgeon specialized in neurology and spine surgery at Phyathai 3 hospital has explained about some techniques of minimally invasive surgery using Microscope as follows. 
The Cervical vertebra is as essential as the brain
Dr. Theerachai explained that the cervical vertebra is an essential organ that makes the neck move into different directions independently such as bending down, turning left or right, or stretching. 
Beside, inside the cervical vertebra, there are spinal nerves compared as a motherboard, it controls the body motion as well as perception and feeling of the legs and arms. 
“The cervical vertebra works as water source of spinal nerve system. 
It is as vital as the brain. 
For that reason, a treatment must be accurate and precise” said the doctor.
Surgery, the best option of delivering great result when disorders occur
When the spine is having some abnormal signs, Dr. Theerachai said that surgery could be the best treatment. 
However, there is currently a technology that provides small surgical wound called "Minimally Invasive Spine Surgery". 
A surgeon would apply this approach using a Microscope with high magnification to see more detail in organs during the process including Navigator used for calculating a spine location.
PROs of getting spine surgery via microscope
Due to the use of high technology, the doctor stated that it assists the process to be more simple and precise. 
For that reason, patients receive safe treatment, less pain, fast recovery with 2-3 centimeters of a surgical wound. 
Moreover, risks from heavy blood loss, the pain would not be happening regarding more advantages of the technology that provides more effective detail than a regular operation that process requires only eye vision. 
To avoid spinal diseases, everyone should take care of health well, do not sit in one posture for a long hour as it could weaken the muscle and do not forget to exercise regularly. 
Moreover, if there are some disorders occur, seeing a doctor to receive proper treatment and screening is higly recommended. 
