Indeed, Nobody wants to have Osteoarthritis surgery. 
However, if you do really need to have one, selecting the right type of surgery including doctor can provide you a better lifetime after a treatment. 
Today, AVM Dr. Chumroonkiet Leelasestaporn, a surgeon specialized in Computer Assisted Navigation in TKA and THA at Phyathai Nawamin hospital will give you some knowledge concerning the Osteoarthritis surgery and Computer Assisted Surgery for total knee arthroplasty as well as Minimally Invasive Surgery.
Quality & Lifetime, the expectation in all surgeries
In knee Osteoarthritis-surgery, the doctor will focus on the quality and lifetime of the knee. 
To have that, 3 factors are needed; the doctor’s capability, precise medical tools and the selection of artificial knee joint. 
“By locating the new joint, the doctor has to measure the right angle for an accurate resulting. 
In this case, a big issue is the tool called Conventional Technique, a medical equipment for measuring angles by using eyesight. 
Although it is mostly used, still the precision rate is approximately at 60-70% meaning that there is still a room to miss during a process. 
For that reason from the 20-30 years lifetime might be lowered to be only 2-3 years”
Computer-Assisted Surgery Technique for more accuracy
“This technique benefits us to have real-time measuring of angle with number showing instead of using the eyesight. 
Thus, in case of finding some mistake, it can promptly be resolved in time. 
Even though, using Computer-assisted Surgery can increase the precision rate to be 95%, the limitation of this technique is the skill of doctor. 
The doctor needs to keep practicing until feels familiar with the tools and can perform the operation efficiently.”
“Tendon”, need to be focused
Apart from the precision, the knee movement also depends on its firmness. 
However, not having the technology, the doctors have to rely on their own experiences whether the tendon is too tight or not. 
In case of loose tendon, the patients might feel unstable while moving, which might be hard for them to move. Accordingly, the Computer Assisted-Surgery can help lower this issue as it shows the exact number making the precision rate goes up with more than 95%.
MIS, The technique for less pain and fast recovery
This technique has been practicing since in 2000 when people only think of the aesthetic matter. 
In fact, the technique is more useful than that. 
The normal surgery might leave you with 13-15 cm. 
of lesion while there is only 10 cm. for the MIS. 
Although it is not a big difference, but what matter is a better condition of internal muscle. 
In general, normal Osteoarthritis surgery requires the doctor to dissect your skin that includes muscle layer which leave a damage on the muscle whereas applying MIS, the doctor will then indirectly provide a treatment with less pain. Even MIS is considered as difficult technique but it’s worth for fast recovery.
In conclusion, using both MIS and Computer-assisted Surgery provides double benefits to receivers for the lifetime