Many people may wonder how cancer screening is important for us and what you have to do after a result said a risk and why it related to anti-aging medicine. 
An obstritian of Familiy Medicine from Phyathai2 Hospital, Dr. Thisara Weerasamai has all answers for you.
Anti-aging does not imply to “Beauty Care”
When people hear about anti-aging, majority of them think of skin care and younger look while its depth meaning is an analysis of cell prevention. 
This provides insight screening in the body cells to detect risks for diseases. 
Morever, it also considered as prevention of cells in order to restore and prolong time for its degeneration including helping balance the holistic mechanisms system and planing for risk of disease which leading to good health and a long good quaity of life.
Regular health care is not enough
Many times we wonder why some people look healthy or concern more about their healthes such as doing excercise, or avoid overworking but then end up having dangerous disease “Cancer” which is a reason why the anti-aging must be considered together with individual good health care.
“Cancer” The world's number one death disease
Cancer is a major health problem and the number one cause of dangerous diseases that create high death rate in the world population. 
Cancer-causing factors include viral infection, smoking, drinking or receiving radiation from chemotherapy. 
Another important reason is Gene.
Many patients who receive regular health check-up with a result that has no sign of initial stage of cancer, that is due the check-up may not provide depth screening especially detecting cancer in gene.
As a result, several insight detective screening such as MAMOGRAM, inernal examination and tumor markers screening are detective approach where some disorders from the cancer can be found.
Genetic factors have 10 to 1000 time more likely to contribute risk of cancer. 
Today, we can find it through DNA test or screening to know a possility of cancer which may be increased in the future such as colon or intestinal cancer, liver cancer, lung cancer, breast cancer and ovarian cancer.
When the result from genetic screening indicates the risk, in order to give pateints total lifestyle modification, a doctor will plan for his or her treatment either apply indepth or active approach as well as tellling pateints what could be adjusted such as, food, lifestyle or environment; types of food that may lead to the risk, proper workout and 6-12 months insight screening for a disease or surgery will also be planned for the patients.