Everyone could have a time when elders in a house start to complain about their leg pain, some say they hear a cracking sound coming from their knees, while some might have an imbalance walking and bowed legs, for that reason, theses are 6 indications that help you assess the intensity  of symptoms by yourself when it is time for operation.
Chronic Knee Joint Pain
Actually it takes more than 6 months until those pain can obviously affect your daily life like walking. 
Once it become intense, you might need to use some walk-aid equipment, for example, canes or walking stick.  
In fact, another way to observe the pain is when you walk up stairs or walk down the stairs as well as standing after done sitting on a chair.
Chronic Pain at day and night        
Anyone who has been suffered from moderate and severe knee pain even while not doing any activity. 
The pain might disturb you both at day and night. 
This is a sign of severe knee osteoarthritis. 
You better go to see a doctor to receive a proper urgent treatment.
Unimproved Symptoms after Medical Treatment
Patients with chronic knee arthritis; despite of having Physical Therapy and medicine, including trying to change some improper behaviors in daily life. 
All cannot improve the symptom, accordingly, a surgery might be the right option of patient’s treatment.
Bowed legs
When it is obvious that the legs are bent away from the original site and disorder seems to intensify and start to cause you a bad impact on the knee joint. 
This might be the right time for your knee surgery as leaving your legs bending can pressure another leg that carries your body. 
It is considered as a major cause of knee osteoarthritis on both sides of the legs.
Knee friction & Joint Loose
Feeling your knees friction or having loose knee joint might cause you an obstacle while moving the body such as, bending your knees or stretching them. 
In this case, you are recommended to see a doctor whereas it causes nearby organs other related symptoms.
Unable to cope with the pain
Once you are unable to stand the pain as well as having restrictions on taking medicines including complications caused by painkillers. 
Here is the time when the surgery seem to be the solution.
However, these are only information for your basic self-assessment. 
Seeing doctors is still a must because they can provide a proper diagnosis also plan for your treatment precisely.

