Lesion is undeniable to happen during a surgery depends on the type of it. 
Apart from wound care after operation, food is one of the factor that you should seriously pay attention to on account of there are some types of that help your body revive faster. 
When the lesion revives fast, you will have less risk of infection.
What type of things that helps patients revive from the surgery faster?
Water
Although water cannot be counted as a nutrient, but it plays a big part in our body. 
Water is one of the most important factors that can heal the surgical wound. 
When the body consists of enough moisturizer, all the cells can move from the tip of the lesion in order to cover all parts of the wound. 
On the contrary, if the body has dehydration, the cell will die and give you more pain. 
Accordingly, you should drink 8-10 glasses of water every day to fulfill your body and fast recovery.
Protein
You might misunderstand and think that meat, milk and egg cause you delayed recovery. 
In fact, that conception is incorrect on account of protein can benefit your body by producing tissue and fixing all the deteriorated parts including strengthening all cells and new skin together as well as protecting the body from infection. 
Furthermore, after the surgery, your body requires one fold of protein from fish, egg, yoghurt, grains and several types of bean.
Iron and Zinc
Iron and Zinc help stimulate the wound for healing process. 
It also simply provides protein and collagen synthesizing as well as shuffling your skin out of  cells. 
If you want to recover fast, consume Iron and Zinc not over 15 milligrams daily from fish, roe, seafood, green vegetable and soybean.
Good fats
Apart from giving you high energy, good fats help transforming protein from the muscle to be used as an energy to fix all the cells including healing some wounds. 
Good fat can be found in olive oil, rice bran oil, peanut oil, soybean oil and sesame oil and hard-shell bean, such as, almond, cashew nut and peanut.
Vitamin C
Our body need vitamin C. 
Apart from being antioxidant, it helps absorbing iron, producing red blood cell, strengthening the blood vessels, making wound healed faster with less swelling. 
We can consume vitamin C from vegetables and fruits, for instances, orange, guava, papaya, guava and broccoli. 
To recover from the surgery fast, you have to consume 100-200 milligrams of vitamin C daily.
The way to clean the wound is also important. 
You should follow what the doctor’s order carefully. 
Give the best care of the wound so that you can revive fast. 
Also, you should skip raw and fermented food because it can cause infections. 
If you follow what are mentioned, you can recover fast and be ready to show how neat your skin is.