Breast Augmentation becomes popular among women especially Asians as most of them barely have chest fat. 
In fact, breast augmentation can help increase confidence, charm as well as better body shape. 
One of the questions frequently asked is how we can have a safe breast augmentation. 
For that question, a specialized surgeon in Plastic Surgery at Phayathai Sriracha Hospital , Dr.Adulayanut Aranyapal will explain and share you deep talk about this topic.
Breast Augmentation Introduction 
Breast augmentation is a surgery whereby a doctor needs to provide silicone inserting to enlarge the breast for a better shape and make it close to the shape of Perfect Beautiful Breast. 
The definition of Perfect Beautiful Breast means the breast fat from the upper part is less than the lower one at 45% : 55% and the nipples point up approximately 10-20 degree. 
Moreover, the fat should be balance, not having much compression with a perfect slope that can make them look beautiful when you wear a bra.
In order to have the Perfect beautiful breast, you have to plan for it by starting from selecting the type of silicone on which matches your body condition. 
You can plan in advance by wearing a silicone model to find the silicone shape that fit with your condition the most provided by a surgeon including selecting the best operation for yourself.
How to select the shape?: Teardrop or Round Breast Implants
There are 2 types of silicone shape:  Teardrop and Round. 
The teardrop silicone has a natural slope which matches to those not preferring a distinctive look or a notice of silicone edge on the breast whereas the round silicone suits for those loving to have their breasts more outstanding.
Key process of breast surgery
After selecting the size, type and shape of coating, then it comes to the time of surgery. 
The most important part is to operate the pain abatement. 
The doctor has to plan it well includes checking your body and health thoroughly by providing blood test, lung screening, electrocardiography as well as an advice from heart specialist and experienced anesthesiologists to make sure that there will be no complications. 
At the same time, medical tools should be prepared under standard with no contamination, additionally operating room needs to have good ventilation system as well.
In order to reduce swollen bruise, bleeding and to make patients recover fast, the doctor will use Electrocautery to stop the bleeding and to create a layer in muscles for inserting the silicone. 
The insertion requires a use of the keller funnel while after taking the silicone, then it will immediately be pushed through a surgical cut to avoid touching since this method can lower the risk of infection and swelling.
Best Silicone Position
There are 3 types of locating the silicone: Under the muscle, over the muscle and dual plane. 
The best location is the dual plane in which the upper part of the breast will be under the muscle and the lower will be under the breast fat.  
When the breasts’ muscle is tightened, the lower breasts can raise up along with the nipples. 
Therefore, this type of surgery becomes the most optimal choice as there will be less risk of Capsular contracture and be the first alternative for surgeon as well.
What is Capsular contracture?
Capsular contracture happens when your body finds foreign matters inside your body. 
A problem occurs after the body produces excess fascia, causing them to squeezes your breasts and make disorder shape. 
You will feel pain and notice that the shape of your breasts is changed.
The main cause is bacteria contamination which produces the biofilm to cover itself making your body unable to get rid of it. 
The result is a chronic inflammation and capsular contracture. 
An additional cause is from an unprofessional surgery or a low-quality silicone that damages the tissues causing excess bleeding and contamination. 
“Accordingly, the best way to prevent the capsular contracture is to get the surgery from a professional doctor.” 
said Dr. Dulayanut Aranyapal.