Allergens, animal dandruff released from its hair definitely cause allergic reactions for example cat, dog and rabbit or squirrel. 
The dandruff might be spread through the air, stick on sofa, bed or sheet when children start to inhale symptom of being allergic would start showing. 
In fact, children with allergy have parents with a history of this disease but for those not having a family with allergy by 14 percent may be triggered by the children body due to environmental factor such as pollution.
Common Allergic Symptoms
Common Symptom is allergic rhinitis; a person will feel itchy, having a coughing, sneezing and nasal congestion. The problem is sometime the person may have to open the mouth to breath while sleeping. 
The symptom causes more sickness afterward. 
However; it may also lead to asthma which result in coughing with mucus and have a sound while breathing requires that person to use breathing spray for asthma. 
Besides, feeling allergy around the eyes also appears as well as dermatitis etc. 
Mentioned symptoms will only occur only when children are exposed or touched by the animals. 
Severity can be relieved by anti-allergy medicine. 
Nevertheless, if you r children have severe chronic symptoms, please immediately consult the doctor.
Prevention
Good protection is not having a pet in a house or bedroom at all; putting them outside is the best option also taking a shower for them every week. 
In addition, if children go to visit someone’s house like cousin and that place has pet it is possible for the children to have the allergic reaction once again. 
“Lyme Disease” Another Disease Caused by Your Petting
Being bit by dog’s tick causing rash or scar on legs and arms is mostly found but what is the most concern for parent is germ in feces of your cats which can lead your child to meningitis after exposing or touching it, so it is best for the kids to keep their hands clean by hand washing every time they play with a pet and never let them put their fingers in the mouth while playing with the animals.
For the tick of dogs and cats today there is medication both for taking, injecting or dropping in your animal to eliminate the amount of ticks. 
However, the tick will never be able to grow in human body.
Vaccines Against Dogs and Cats in Children
For vaccines, only rabies vaccine is available. 
In general, those who are at risk, such as vet or staff, will be vaccinated by only 3 needles and stimulate it in every 5 years. 
On the other hand, for children there will be many vaccines available. 
However, most of pediatrician does not recommend vaccinations in the children but it advised to use it when the problem occurs, like being bitten or scratched by animals. 
All 5 needles are injected on the first day, day3, day7, day14 and day 28. 
It can prevent the children from the disease about 5 years. 
The most importantly is watching the wounds with soap about 3-5 minutes before seeking for a doctor and immediately see the doctor within 24 hours. 
"Wool Blown into The Lungs” Another Funny Misconception by People
The body has a mechanism to prevent large amount of dust from entering to the lungs. 
Therefore, the belief about the fur flying into the lung and get stuck is not real. 
However, there is only animal dandruff entering to the nasal cavity or trachea. 
How to Live with Pets? 
Set a place with more space, avoid having pets in the house or bed room and do not forget to bring your pet to vaccination as well as giving them a shower every week. 
Watching hands after playing the pets require for the children and teach them to avoid accidently attacked on the facial area.
