Mentioning about "Cervical Cancer", many people see it as unnecessary thing and might think it would not happen to them. 
However, they should know that cervical cancer has already been on the top of all cancers found in Thai women. 
According to at first, symptoms are unseen and it could be late when the disease is detected during the end stage. 
In this article, you will be provided the lists of some major signs from this disease. 
HPV virus; a cause of cervical cancer
The cause of cervical cancer is various starting from chemicals that cause chronic irritation to what cause cell injury. 
In fact, the main cause of cervical cancer is Human Papilloma Virus while the vital channel of HPV infection is caused by sex.
No warning signs ... once notice, it is too late
HPV is contacted directly by sex, after it gets into the body. 
Latent period can take about 10-15 years, then 30-60 years later the symptoms would be expressed clearly. 
However, in case of these following symptoms happen, you should go see a doctor immediately.
Have a slight vaginal bleeding happen after sex or irregular bleeding during menstruation.
Take longer period for menstruation than usual
Have Anorexia, weight loss
Have fluid in the vagina or vaginal discharge like water or thick mucus with blood or pus. 
However, it either smells bad or does not smell at all.
Have blood in urine and feces (Found in case of disease has spreads to the bladder and rectum)
In cases when the cancer grows larger, it might cause you lower abdominal pain, urinary incontinence or obstructed defecation as well as feeling a compression at the kidney, which that might cause you renal failure after.
Have swollen legs, which means cervical cancer has already spread to the lymph nodes.
Even the initial symptoms of cervical cancer are not shown, anyone has these mentioned symptoms, you should go see a doctor to find out what the cause really is as “the faster you receive a screening the more chances of cure you have”.
Also, do not forget to receive a health checkup including pelvic examination every year for cervical cancer detection. 

