Hearing the word “surgery” can drive people frightened about its process due to the imagination even though today, there is a new advanced innovation which effectively helps increase more accuracy of the surgery, especially for total artificial knee replacement surgery.  
In the process, we now use the computer technology along with minimally invasive surgery to ensure that patients will certainly have their normal lives back.
The beginning of “Surgery”
The first Total Knee replacement started in 1968, around 40 years ago, from that point of time, the surgical technique has been developed to enhance a doctor skill includes quality of artificial knees to extend more stable duration of the artificial knee. 
In fact, the total knee replacement is a surgery whereby the doctor needs to cut some broken surfaces out of knee joint and replace them by a new shape of artificial knee.
Technology development
Today, the Total Knee Replacement has fully improved.
An intention is to give back patients normal lives by the best resulting. 
The assessment of process comes from faster recovery and no complications after the surgery, including a good quality of the artificial knee and duration of it after procedure.
In addition, technology helps increase the surgery precision that suits for individual as there is a medical tool which provides a navigator so that the doctor can locate the artificial knee joint and finally provides patients the best result. 
Furthermore, the minimally invasive surgery will give them less pain, revival faster as well as shortened hospital stay.
Get more confidence due to Doctor’s expertise
The doctor expertise is also one of important factors in Total Knee Replacement surgery, in fact, certain doctors can only do this type of surgery, for example, the doctors who can operate the Total Knee Replacement surgery by using computer system are those who have gained a lot of experiences, and be familiar with the system as well as can provide up-to-date information to their patients, and answer all questions they have which help bring up more confidence in them.
Everything starts from “yourself”
Even though you already have a professional doctor supporting your sickness, including high standard hospital, high quality artificial knees, in fact, these are just additional factors of your treatment process. 
However, the most important factors are mental and physical’s readiness of patient as the best surgery result comes after their preparation.  
The mentioned factors affect how the patients will feel during operation.