Most of you might think that the spinal disease only happens with elders and overlook your bad daily behaviors which these can cause you the disease without realizing. 
However, what are those behaviors that lead you to the abnormalities. 
In this article, all information and answers are provided by  Dr.Theerachai Panitphong, a neurological specialists or spinal surgeon from Neurology and spine center, Phyathai 3 hospital, so that you can prepare and protect yourself from the disease.
Beware of “Herniated Disc” if you sit and work for a long period of time
Sitting both in front of the computer for a long time or having a long drive without stretching the body or frequently lifting heavy stuff, in fact, all can lead you to Herniated disc. 
According to mentioned details, the doctor has explained the cause of the disease that is based on the part in which the disease is occurred;
Herniated disc around the lower back affects the nervous system in the waist and legs. 
You might experience irregular pain on the waist especially when you stand, bent or perk including numbness on the feet and legs, for severe condition patients might feel paralyzed as well.
Herniated disc around the neck affects the pain on the neck. 
You might feel hard to move your neck which might spread to one of your arms. 
Some cases might have numbness on the tip of fingers which later spreads to the palms.
Sitting cross-legged cause you the Scoliosis
Dr.Theerachai said the sitting makes your weight pressure on one side of the bottom, causing numbness and pain as well as bending the bone curve which affects you in long term. 
Accordingly, every time while doing sit-working, you better sit by laying your back on the backrest in order to lower the pain.
Bending your head to see a screen also gives you a risk of Herniated disc
If you have to work in front of the computer all day ,you might feel the pain on the both side of scapulas like someone is pressing hard on your neck and back. 
The Dr.Theerachai spoke that this causes by fatigue of your muscle and tendons. 
Additionally,in case of you do not adjust your seat and screen level by setting them with the same angle or position. 
This forces you to bend over to see the screen most of the time, which is a cause of  Cervical Spondylosis. 
Therefore, you should rest your eyes by changing your sitting posture  frequently and locate the screen in the right angle.
Overweight…put you at risk of Degenerative disc
Having obesity or being overweight, both make your body carry too much weight of the body and cause you spinal pain. 
You might have risk of disc degeneration. 
The doctor added that those who have an average weight, there might create the risk due to several reasons, for instance, long hour sitting in front of computer, lifting heavy stuff, wrong sitting, improper walking or standing, including extreme sport playing or not having enough exercise as well as age increasing.   
If you notice some risk behaviours, then start to change yourself. 
However, if there are some disorders, you should visit a doctor for a further diagnosis whereas, receiving  late detection might cause you having a treatment by surgery.