Meningitis is a disease that causes infection to the central nervous system. 
The disease is derived from several infections such as viral infections, bacteria, fungi and helminths respectively, these can occur in both children and adults.
Who are at Risk?
People with high risk are children aged under 2 years old due to the immune system in the children still develops incompletely. 
The disease then can impact on many organs easily. 
However, even the Meningitis is barely found in Thailand, but when it happens most of patients will be in danger based on condition and health individually including how fast the patient is taken to a hospital. 
In addition the disease also cause the patient disability as well as death if they are not saved in time.
Misunderstanding about “Meningitis Vaccines”
Although meningitis is currently preventable by vaccination but most parents are misled about the meningococcal vaccine that the HIB vaccines given to every child can prevent them from the meningitis.
In fact, there are many types of bacteria that cause meningitis even HIB vaccine can still not be able to cover it. 
They are pneumococcal disease,salmonella infection and meningococcus. 
Therefore, parents should always be aware of it.
Currently, HIB and pneumococcal bacteria vaccines can actually cover this disease. 
For the pneumococcal bacteria vaccines is called IPD which apart from protecting your body from the disease it also prevent you from IPD diseases including pneumonia.
Nevertheless the vaccine is still optional and not regulated as a basic vaccine for all children. 
Parents must consider the cost of injection their own children and for the meningococcal disease, there is vaccine for it as well. 
Moreover, for the salmonella infections that cause meningitis there are no vaccines available.
The Initial Signals that Parents should not Overlook
Meningitis has fast expression especially in young children. 
Therefore, when children are sick parents should observe their symptoms closely. 
Main symptoms are similar with other general diseases which are headaches, nausea, vomiting, restlessness and anorexia.
There are also some other symptoms that can be observed which are fever, sensitive eyesight, neck pain, depression,convulsions and weak limbs. 
If it occurs to children aged under 1, the symptoms are often unclear. 
Doctors need to do CSF to confirm the diagnosis and continue a treatment effectively.
"The Meningitis is very severe affects the central nervous system causing intellectual disability including physical disability and the loss of life.
Thus, raising children healthy by giving them 5 dishes of cooked meal and fresh. 
Wash your hands thoroughly. 
Maintaining good hygiene in a house including doing exercise regularly . 
These help protect the body from bad diseases. 
Moreover,parents should avoid taking kids to crowded areas like hospital as it is contributor for the spreading of this disease.