If you click on this page that may be because you are not certain about what gallstones really is. 
Today, we have good information from Orthopedic Surgeon Dr.Sujin Sukhahuta at Phyathai Nawamin Hospital who have clarified us about cause, treatment, sign of symptoms as well as self-care techniques for Gallstone so that you can prevent yourself from a disease.
What is importance of "Gallbladder"?
The doctor has described the nature and importance of gallbladder that it is a type of organ located under the liver on the right side of the rib responding for trapping bile from your liver which means when you intake food as soon as they are transferred into the stomach, the gallbladder then will contract or squeeze itself to release the stored bile in order to digest fats. 
For that reason it causes them breaking into small drops which being ease to being absorbed.
What cause Gallstone in your body ?
For many people who are wondering how gallstones appears inside the body. 
The answer to clarify your doubt is "Gallstones are caused by the imbalanced substances from the bile. 
Generally, the substance composes of cholesterol, bisol and bilirubin which the imbalanced amount eventually leads to gallstones due to precipitating.
Preliminary Symptoms of "Gallstones"
Dr. Sujin added that the techniques to observe the initial symptoms are similar to gastritis for example flatulence, chest pain and rib pain. 
Most occur after meal, especially oily food which is considered as one of risks. 
It affects the body by causing gas in the stomach including nausea, vomiting and shoulder pain. 
These symptoms may appear about 15 minutes or all night then will disappear later. 
That is a reason why people do not visit a doctor at first. 
In addition, majority of mentioned symptoms may relate to chronic gastritis or chronic indigestion. However the gallstone always being detected after having a screening meaning that those are at risk the doctor will provide them ultrasound to detect the gallstone symptom directly.
"Who" is at risk for gallstone ?
The risk factors associated with gallstone are various, such as age, sex and personal behavior. 
"Women are more likely to develop gallstones than men because their body contain accumulated fat like cholesterol which is a component of bile. 
Apart from that those who aged over 40 or elderly that diagnose with hyperlipidemia als well as whoever has a family with a history of gallstone are also included on a list.
Improper lifestyle can cause you the gallstone
Apart from sex and gender, living habit such as non-exercise or having unhealthy food are also vital factors. 
The doctor said that the bile contains cholesterol, Bisil and Bilirubin. 
So if we eat more fatty foods then high cholesterol will be increased and balance of the bile becomes imbalance. 
At the same time the cholesterol is stimulated to cause the gallstone.
"Surgical Treatment” for Gallstones
Although treating gallstones can be medication or specific procedure, but the doctor gave a comment that it does not work well as the gallstones requires only surgery for the remedy. 
Therefore, that is a conclusion which is applied at the present called Laparoscopy proving patients minimal pain and scar. 
Accordingly, the patients are able to stand the pain during a process also recover fast after it being done without hospital stay requirement.
The "Surgery" limitation
The limitation mainly based on condition of the patients individually “firstly, screening for the risk of using anesthesia will be provided to detect some limited conditions in them for example in those who are old or have some serious diseases such as heart disease, brain diseases as well as complicate infection or whom have been operated on the upper part of the abdomen also the lower part are going to be considered for not being undergo by this method due to theses patients may have fascia that cause some difficulties during the process. 
However, the surgery will always be the first option before using traditional abdominal open surgery.”
How to take care of yourself after surgery
Every doctor always gives full attention to a surgical wound care “In the first week, patients must receive wound cleaning every day or some cases may receive by skipping day by day while food that patients are allowed to intake should not be oily, rich in strong taste, or hard to be digested. 
Moreover, for living or doing activity the doctor will suggest them to avoid doing workout including outdoor activities in about 1-2 week after that then they can start doing light exercising.
How to prevent yourself from this disease?
Taking care of yourself is the best defense. 
The doctor has recommended that you should avoid having oily food and replace it with food that contains fibers along with behavior modification such as doing regular exercise to prevent yourself from obesity and hyperlipidemia. 
In addition; those having a family with a history of gallstone should receive annual screening often or when you feel having flatulence, chronic indigestion then should receive the screening from specialized doctor as soon as possible to detect the disease properly.

