Bright light or Noisy Sound could be factors that trigger your migraine pain, while "Food" overlooked from being considered as one of the factors can cause the same severity of the pain. 
However, let us take a look on the following list if the menu you are taking contribute to the migraine or not.
Coffee or Tea
Some of us might not be aware that having headache can be stimulated by drinking coffee and tea. 
That's because caffeine in tea and coffee affect the central nervous system. 
For those with migraine or sensitivity of this substance should avoid drinking beverage containing caffeine.
Alcoholic Beverages or Red-Wine
Headache that occurs while drinking alcohol caused by tyramine, sulfide, histamine and and flavonoid. 
They are substances that reduce the levels of serotonin in the brain giving you severe headache especially for those who are in love with clubbing at night.
Bread or pizza
"Yeast" is a big trigger of migraine, accordingly "bread" and "pizza" by which contain tyramine that is a trigger of migraine. 
Therefore, those who are at risk must avoid or hastily remove them from their favorite dishes.
Monosodium glutamate
Each day, many foods are taken into the body and some of them contain MSG or flavored substances. 
Both contribute and stimulate the secretion of certain neurotransmitters including the nitric oxide secreted from the cells of arterial wall. 
The nitric oxide substance causes the blood vessels to expand which that is a reason of having headache.
Chocolate
According to the chocolate, there is no accredited source or research saying that the chocolate is a cause of migraine while many people suffer from the pain after having it. 
Therefore, it is better to avoid eating chocolate as that might help you reduce some of your pain.
There are many triggers that cause us headache such as light or sound as well as meals. 
The best way to prevent yourself from that is observing what cause you the headache and be away from those contributors to stop the pain.

