Protect Influenza in Children by Vaccines
Flu is a disease that is found throughout a year mostly in rainy season and winter.
The cause named “Influenza virus" from mucus,saliva or sputum.
Patient is contact by coughing or sneezing.
What is Flu?
There are 3 major types of influenza A, B and C.
Each of them is divided into different types.
The incident of this disease happens each type is one type.
Accordingly, the body then has immunity for that type of influenza, however, that does not mean a person will be safe from other types.
The incubation takes around 1-4 days.
The strains of influenza results in outbreaks and each outbreak is named based on origin, such as the Hong Kong flu, the Russian flu, the Singapore flu or H1N1.
Symptoms of Influenza
High fever, headache, fatigue, muscular weakness, anorexia, bitterness in the throat which causes sore throat, nasal congestion, dry coughing and discomfort.
On the other hand, some patients may not have any symptom appear.
Fever might be above 38.5-40 degrees Celsius approximate which occurs within about 2-4 days, then gradually decrease.
Coughing and feeling fatigue about 1 to 4 weeks even certain symptoms are relieved.
Face turning red including the eyelid.
Patients may have mucus and may feel sore throat.
Treatment for Influenza
Taking enough rest by having enough sleep avoid overworking and taking a shower by cold water.
Apply wet cloth and have steamed rice together with water or juice.
Symptoms will be treated by Antitussis and Common Cold (Children should avoid using aspirin)
Take Amantadine and Ramantadine which doctor will consider way to provide treatment in patients individually.
Antibiotics, doctors will be given to patients while having bacterial complications. 
Patients may have yellow mucus or green sputum, sinusitis, middle ear inflammation and bronchitis, etc.
A child or elderly with asthma suspected of having pneumonia should be taken to a hospital.
The doctor will have to provide antibiotics on basis of the type of found infection .
Influenza Protection
Generally, those having healthy physical condition require treatment similar to common cold by watching hands regularly including having foods with good nutrition.
Avoid touching or being next to people with a disease using mask and receive vaccine injection every year.
Who should receive flu vaccination?
Children 6-23 months old and those who are close to flu patients.
Adult aged over 55
Children aged 6-18 with diabetes, kidney disease, blood disease and lack of immunity taking aspirin for a long time.
People with chronic diseases such as chronic lung disease, asthma, heart disease, kidney disease, diabetes,immunodeficiency and obesity.
Those who are hospitalized in the past year.
Those working as Medical staff, laboratory staff, nursery staff or working in nursing home or a place surrounded by chronic disease patients.
Pregnant women, especially during the last month.
Tourists traveling abroad to visited places where there is the outbreak.
Who are not allowed to receive the vaccination?
Children aged under 6 months
Those who are allergic to fur or leather.
If symptoms are not severe such as having rash, the vaccine is still given however symptoms need to be observed at least about 30 minutes after the injection.
Acute illness
Having high fever
People with severe complications
If your family has children please do not forget to take them to receive the flu vaccination as severe symptoms may cause a patient death.

