If you are one of those who want to have children, but still look the way to get pregnant. 
However, it sometimes requires right moment and time. These are some good techniques for you.
What is "Ovulation"?
Ovulation is a natural mechanism of reproductive system in female that occurs every month before reaching menopause. 
It takes about 28-35 days a round, starting on the first day of menstruation. 
The date that eggs ovulate is when the mature eggs are released to the end part of the ovary duct.
1 month, Only One Ovulation
For each ovulated date could be different in each person based on time of the menstruation. 
By the way when eggs start to ovulate they only can live about 12-24 hours. 
If fertilization or sexual intercourse happens during this time, the eggs then will go embedded in the uterus wall and turn to embryo leading to pregnancy. 
On the other hand, if there is no fertilization 14 days later that would become menstruation as usual.
Sperm can Embbed in The Uterus without Ovulation
Even if it's not the ovulated date, sperm that enter to the uterus can still live for 48-72 hours. 
In addition, although not having sex on the right date about 1-2 days prior that could also leads to pregnancy. 
However, if you have sex after that, chance will be lowered due to shorter time for eggs to live.
Counting the right time of ovulation?
Normally, the counting starts before next round of menstruation. 
In order to count the date precisely requires stable time of your menstruation such as it comes in every day 28. 
According to that, the ovulation date will be on day 14 (First day of menstruation = Day 1) After that you can start scheduling time for sexual intercourse (sex) from Day 12. 
The sperm will live and wait for the fertilization around 2 days before the menstruation.
Apart from counting the ovaluated date, some discharge or mucus from your virgina could be a major sign for effective fertilization that lead to the pregnancy known as golden minute.
Receiving Consutation from Your Doctor
For those who have problems with menstruation we recommend you to consult a doctor to find the right cause