Coronary artery disease or myocardial infarction has been frequently found in people nowadays. 
In fact, both of them are actually the same. 
However, the diseases are caused by Arteriosclerosis which is similar to the rust that is trapped inside the water pipe and when it becomes accumulated too long, then a blockage would happen.
The Arteriosclerosis is caused by the accumulation of fat and limestone including cells from the deepest inner wall of the artery. 
This case would gradually coagulate and become thicker, while an obstruction would affect the arteries directly, and the heart would be lack of blood causing angina pain as well as heart attack afterward, which means a chance of death would raise higher as well.
What are the risk factors for coronary heart disease?
Uncontrollable Risk factors
Gender: Men are more vulnerable than women, but the women are at risk when it comes to menopause.
Genetics: A family has a history of being diagnosed with this disease and there is a higher risk than others as well.
Age: Males aged 40 or older, but nowadays by the age of 35, they can be at risk for the disease since there is involvement of environmental factors such as alcohol drinking, smoking, lack of sleep, having too many fatty foods. 
On the other hand, in females it starts by age 55 or older, because most women take care of themselves well by selecting or consuming low-fat meals including in female body contains hormone which also helps control the fat.
Controllable Factors
Hypertension: Maintain and control to normal level
High Cholesterol Levels in Blood or Hyperlipidemia: control your blood lipid levels by selecting foods carefully or take a medicine directed by a doctor
Diabetes: Controls blood sugar levels
Smoking: Avoid smoking
Alcohol: Avoid drinking
Obesity: Control a body weight, do not let yourself be overweight
Exercise: Exercise at least 3-4 times of aerobic exercises a week, about 30 minutes each.
Stress: Practice meditation, avoid having anxiety and set your mind clear
Resting: Have enough sleep at least 6-8 hours a day.
Symptoms of coronary artery disease
Most patients with coronary artery disease do not notice that they have been diagnosed with certain abnormalities as symptoms slowly develop and express when the heart lacks of blood or already becomes Acute myocardial infarction. 
Primary symptoms of both diseases are discomforted or chest pain, the violences are based on individuals. 
Some might suffer from uncomfortable breathing or tiredness due to the heart muscle is in need of the blood including oxygen and nutrients that are enough sufficient for the function of the heart muscle cells through the arteries that supplies the heart.
When the artery becomes narrow, the blood then cannot be delivered to the heart and later the heart will beats faster at the same time as the blood pressure will rise, especially in times of exertion, starving, being angry, frightened and while having nightmares whereas the heart will need more blood supply. 
Consequently, myocardial infarction will occur and be followed by the following effects:
No symptoms previously shown : Patients often die suddenly from intensive activities such as sports. 
The majority of these people are facing their working-ages while having strong body and health. 
There is no warning signs for this case therefore this group of patients should be aware of such sudden dangers.
Fatigue : Get tired easily also breath uncomfortably during activities or exertion
Swelling of the feet or both sides of ankles
Heart failure; It is caused by myocardial infarction (Like a lack of food), or may be caused by acute myocardial infarction. 
The heart cannot squeeze itself to supply the blood, at the same time the patients may not be able to lie down as well.
Acute myocardial infarction; Caused by sudden arterial blockages. 
However, this is usually caused by a thrombosis in the area of blood obstruction. 
The muscular that is maintained by that artery will be dead. 
Patients will have severe chest pain while the pain could go longer than usual.
However, the coronary heart disease has increased death records every year. 
We all should provide ourselves more self-care to reduce the risk of the disease by modifying improper habits, like avoid having foods with high saturated fat, being overweight, less sleeping, having stress, smoking or drinking alcohol on a regular basis, as mentioned, providing the body and heart by exercising regularly including behavioral modification can protect your health and heart from many serious diseases in the future.
