“Chin” is one of vital parts on the face. 
A good shape of it enhances your face with more beauty. 
For that reason, in this article specialized surgeon Dr. Dulayanut Aranyapal, has come to disclose you this topic.
Types of Chin Implants
“In general, there are several ways of chin surgery starting from adjusting the molar bone and chin and providing to those having malocclusion or aiming to do more silicone implants at the chin for a longer shape. 
In fact, the silicone chin implants will only be provided to people who have short chin with no occlusion issue as well as are willing to have orthodontics.
Doctor Proficiency and Patients can make surgery success
Both the doctor and patients have to decide the size of the silicone for the best result and the most satisfaction from patients.
Facial reconstruction program for surgery
Apart from silicone selecting, for the best resulting there is facial reconstruction program on which the surgeon would use to display how your face would be like after the surgery.
Only 1-day revival
After you choose the size you want, the doctor will takes about 40 minutes for the Silicone Chin Implants by first starting from the anesthetic injection. 
However, as it is a small operation, thus, you only need 1 day to recover. 
At the same time the doctor will stop you from bleeding to control the blood as well as swollen bruises and later insert the silicone under the periosteum to prevent the silicone from moving including distortion.
Cartilage-like soft silicone provides you realistic results
Using a silicone-premium grade, will make you look similar to the cartilage making it hard to see the edge of the silicone in long term. 
Also the silicone will adjoin onto the bone like a real one making you to have a good-looking chin.
“As today, the chin surgery is not difficult anymore, merely 40 minutes you can have a pretty outstanding chin with more confidence” said  Dr. Dulayanut Aranyapal (Specialized surgeon in Plastic Surgery from Phayathai Sriracha Hospital)