In general, the diabetes mostly found in the elderly and those who are obese and overweight including patients that have the disease due to hereditary. 
In fact, this is only a part of cause which is not totally wrong or right. 
Recently, incidence of the disease has been increasing especially in young people. 
Type 1 and type 2 diabetes are most found in those aged under 18, which the type 1 found in preschool kids while the type found in high-school kids
Diabetes in children and adolescents is more problematic than people expect as the disease covers every condition impact on health such as blood sugar and complication when they get older thus, knowing how to prevent the problems is essential.
Measurement criteria for diabetes in young children and adolescents is the same as for adults
Receive blood glucose check after abstaining from foods for 8-12 hours, result with over 126 milligrams per deciliter, at least 2 times of the test.
Blood glucose check after swallowing 75 g glucose for 2 hours, result is more than 200 mg / dl.
Blood glucose Randomized screening without fasting ,result is 200 mg / dL. 
with symptoms that come with diabetes such as frequent urination, and feeling of body dehydrated
Type 1diabetes : the body's immune system breaks down while the beta cells in the pancreas cannot produce enough insulin to lower blood sugar levels which causes hyperglycemia and diabetic Ketoacidosis. 
Symptoms include feeling thirsty, frequent urination, weight loss, fatigue, nausea and vomit. 
This type of diabetes caused by a disorder of some genes that regulate the body's immune system.
Type 2 diabetes: This type is directly related to weight gain and obesity. 
Regarding numbers of Thai population who are gaining weight due to the change of diet and lifestyle. 
They consume more sugar and fat than before without exercising and full sleep . 
Therefore, insulin resistance and decreased the beta cells then happen.
Prevention of diabetes in children and adolescents
Although there is currently no way to prevent type 1 diabetes, but it can be diagnosed and treated quickly and accurately. 
At the same time the type 2 diabetes can be prevented by reducing the risk factors that can be controlled, such as weight control during pregnancy.
Lifestyle, eating, with low sugar and fat focusing on protein and vegetables - Fruit including activities such as exercise, running, playing sports that can prevent diabetes in children and adolescents.
Treatment of diabetes in children and adolescents
Type 1 diabetes treatment is administered by the injection of insulin only. 
Using appropriate insulin levels to reduce blood sugar levels to normal level to prevent a system from blood ketones and high blood sugar. 
During first period the treatment process could be difficult however, a doctor and patients and family need to cope with each other to protect complication that may occur in the future more effectively.
Type 2 diabetes treatment is used to reduce sugar levels, along with diet including blood pressure control and body weight. 
However, in adolescence, controlling over diet and medication is quite difficult as teenagers they have to deal with a lot of physical changes. 
Hormones can contribute insulin resistance.
In conclusion, Diabetes patients must keep their blood sugar levels in standard to prevent the body from complication which require cooperating from family and patient.

