It is normal to have bruises after a surgery especially for the swelling. 
A lot of people get serious about it because they are afraid that recuperation might go slow.
Most of the time, patient thinks the bruises and swelling are caused by the doctor but actually it is not. 
In fact, this effect is normal for all surgeries since the tissue is contacted directly. 
Also the response to the damage is various in different person.
However, those who have received the procedure and would like to have fast recuperation. 
Here are 4 ways to relieve swelling and bruised after the aesthetic operation.
Cold compression
Applying cold compression right after the surgery within 48 hours by using cold pack or a wet freezed cloth can help controlling the loss of blood, pain and the swelling. 
It makes the vessels squeeze and also helps increasing the blood flow and reduces the swellings. 
Your blood then will be formed and stop bleeding. 
However, what should be aware of is those receiving augmented nose and chin surgery do the compression on the forehead in spite of both surgical areas, avoid touching silicone during the cold compression due to the silicone  position might be moved.
Raise your head in higher position
In the first 3-5 days after a nose surgery, you should always put your head higher than your heart level in order to prevent liquid substances from leaking out of the blood. 
It also helps reducing the swelling damage. 
However, by doing this, you might need a high pillow.
Hot compression after 1 week
After 1 week passed for cold compression, change to a use of hot compression because heat helps widening the blood vessels for receiving all the liquid substances that might be left in the swelling tissue. 
Moreover, heat also helps dissolve blood clot and soften the hard membrane. 
Please keep in mind that it should not be too hot or else it can burn your skin. 
In addition, you should also observe yourself, if the swelling comes back after using the hot compression, you should stop using it.
Food to reduce the swelling damage
Food is the key for the reducing of swelling damage. 
You are recommended to have pumpkin, seaweed, Asiatic pennywort or black bean on account of they contain vitamin A that heals and protects you from infection, swelling and bacteria. 
However, mineral, fiber and iron also help warming up your body- temperature, reducing swollen skin, enriching your blood, detoxifying your body and killing the infection as well.