Why the first knee surgery is important?
You cannot avoid Osteoarthritis when you get older especially when you have to receive a knee surgical treatment for the first time. 
In this article AVM Dr. Chumroonkiet Leelasestaporn, a surgeon specialized in Computer Assisted Navigation in TKA and THA at Phyathai Nawamin hospital will give you more information about this.
Osteoarthritis, an undeniable disease.
The doctor said that, soon or later, people have to experience the Osteoarthritis. 
Hence, you have to receive a treatment since the early stage as you might not have to get a surgery later. 
However, in case of severe condition do not hesitate to have a surgery whereas having pain accumulation can cause both of your legs including nearby organs such as neck and back Osteoarthritis. 
The importance of first knee replacement surgery
For those patients that are diagnosed and in need of the surgery, extending a time can affect both the bones and tendon. 
Nowadays, there are several alternatives of surgery providing you satisfied results. 
Being frugal with price and time of your first operation may not be a good option. 
In fact, patients should take time to find more information about the process and a decision should not base on convenience or price, because it is not worth risking your life for the second operation to revise some of mistakes from the first surgery.
Find more information for a better understanding
What the doctor always tells his patients is to find more information about the treatment because they and family are those who can only make the final decision. 
Nevertheless, there are several types of artificial joints. 
It does not necessarily mean that you have to select the most expensive one. 
At the same time, age is not also a problem as people can have a surgery although they turn 70, 80 or 90 years old. 
In case, if patients would like to receive the procedure to want as before, having a surgery is worth it. Moreover, for having brain disease the surgery might not be a good option.  
However, there is one of cases which the doctor has treated him while he was 92. 
At that time he would like to be able to walk again, a result is he has an ability to walk and recently he has already turned 107 years old.  
Meaning that we don’t know how long our life time would be but we can choose to live happily. 
Thus, if walking can make you happy because you can go travelling with your family and friends as well as socializing with people, then, surgery is worth decision.
Engagement and Trust are the big motivation
One of the most frequent issues is the anxiety of patients as it can causes muscle contracting and low revival rate. 
In fact, if the patients follow and trust their doctors, they will recover fast with good surgical result. 
Accordingly, selecting a hospital and doctor are crucial as both gain you trust which helps protect you from infection, and complication.