The problem for having a baby is prevalent in married couples.
However, if compares to many years ago, it shows increasing numbers of couple with this problem. Lifestyle and economy come to take a role, for that reason people take longer time to be married and have a baby. 
Accordingly when the problem happens, the best solution could be seeking for accurate screening by specialized doctor for a right treatment plan that solves the fertility condition in the couple.
What is The Key Sign of The Fertility?
Having this difficulty means the spouse might have sex quite frequently around 3-4 times a week within a year and then it turns out couple still have no baby. 
Moreover, either one of them have these contributor factors, for example, abnormal menstruation or genital injury. 
The couple is suggested to receive consultation by doctor and there is no need to wait until 1 year complete. 
In addition, woman aged over 35 is also included. 
Actually, 60 percent of the fertility cause mostly comes from a woman while 40 percent comes from male.
The Fertility Caused by "Men"
The fertility has different factors which could be genetic, low amount of sperm, body movement or medication, for instance, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, bad drug, smoking, drinking or chronic diseases: diabetes, thyroid, endocrine disease and injury occurred in genital area.
The Fertility Caused by "Woman"
Woman with the difficulty faces the similar problems with men and merely has higher possibility of it due to age increased, abnormal menstruation as well as genital or problem with endometrium, pelvic inflammation, fascia, and tumor etc.
Apart from age, there are more factors that create the symptoms like, cyst or endometriosis and another factor is infectious disease such as Chlamydia that obstructs the oviduct when it happens the sperm then is unable to fertilize. 
Moreover, stress and less sleep or sex also create the problem including the suitable time for ovariation.
When It is Time to See a Doctor?
Fistly, doctor will ask patients about the history of physical condition and screen both, internally and externally such as semen examination, ultrasound and hysterosalpingography. 
After that, the laboratory will be made for detecting the cause as well as advantaged medical technology will be utilized for a treatment.
Technology That Treat "Fertility"
When the cause and solution to the problem is not effective, then will consider the appropriate method of pregnancy. 
The main factors are the success rate, cost, complication, minimal pain. 
The technology used to help pregnant women have several ways.
Intrauterine Insemination (IUI) is the ideal solution for men with sperm problems while a woman is healthy. 
Procedure is made by stimulating the egg and sperm. Selected sperm will be injected into the uterus
Gamete Intrafallopian Transfer (GIFT) is a traditional method but cannot be applied effectively. 
the process is to stimulate the ovaries with hormones then camera will be put through the stomach to collect eggs and mix them with sperm. 
Later it will be injected back to oviduct through the abdomen to achieve the fertilization.
Zygote Intrafallopian Transfer (ZIFT) is a very popular method for people facing the fertility. 
For those with pelvic fascia, fallopian tube obstruction or abnormal ovulation, low amount of sperm. 
Process done by ovarian stimulation, collecting eggs to mix with sperm in the laboratory then grow embryo for around 3-5 days later return the embryo into the uterus.
Intracytoplasmic Sperm Infection (ICSI) is one of in-vitro-fertilization’s step but the difference is that the best sperm will be selected for injection to the uterus. 
Growing the baby embryo takes about 3 to 5 days before the injection.
The problem of the fertility depends on different factors in each couple. 
Therefore, receiving the screeninging in early is the best solution.