At the present, many countries with high advanced medical technology, such as the United States of America, England, as well as India, Bangladesh and European countries, have been innovated and build us “Modern Tonsillectomy” by using Co2 Laser machine. 
However, this is made to treat patients with tonsillitis and according to a process, some of good tonsil issues may require storage. 
In fact, today the information about this new Tonsillectomy is served as below by our medical director of Ear Nose Throat Clinic, DR.SARANCHAI KIATSURAYANON from Phyathai 3 Hospital, 
Tonsil gland and stem cells
The Dr. has explained that tonsil is one of the organs inside human body. 
It functions the immune system.
According to the modern medical science, the tonsils have the large numbers of stem cells. 
In fact, the quality of them is higher than Stem Cell from bone-marrow and also easier to be used.
That is a reason why they should not be cut during a treatment process unless a condition harms the patients, for example, diagnosing with cancer, or having tonsil infection which cannot be treated, however, this case happens by more than 1 to 2% of tonsil diseases.
What is Co2 Laser Technique?
This technique has various processes depends on the cause of diseases, for example, a cause of bad breath like Tonsil stones, which is treated by Co2 Laser Cryptolysis, but in case of Recurrent Tonsillitis, Co2 Laser Resurfacing will be applied for a treatment instead. 
Moreover, if the tonsils have severe pathological stage, Co2 Laser intracapsular Tonsillectomy then will be used in order to remove almost 95 percent every single one of the infected Tonsil and keep certain 5 percent good tissues by Co2 Laser intracapsular Tonsillectomy 
21st century Surgical techniques
certain organs are reserved.
Harmless small surgical wound and fast recovery are provided.
During surgery, injuries and blood loss slightly happen
The Advantages of using Co2 laser in tonsil surgery
Using Topical and Local Anesthesia
Tonsil gland is not removed
Having 0-5 cc. 
of blood loss, while the Traditional Tonsillectomy giving 50-150 cc. of the blood loss.
According to a static, postoperative hemorrhage can occur by 2-5% , which is at the same level with traditional Tonsillectomy. 
However, referring to phyathai3 Hospital static found that the 0.5 percent postoperative hemorrhage happened after receiving the surgery about 24 hours or 2 weeks which an amount of blood loss is lesser than an general operation.
Patients do not have to stay in a hospital. 
This can be done safely in the OPD patient's room and they are able to go back home after completion.
After the surgery, patients only have small pain also recover from a condition quickly include return to work within 1-2 days. 
On the other hand, for the traditional treatment, patients who have to stay in hospital for 2 to 3 days, and the pain can be very intensive while the recovery may take about 1-2 weeks.
