Certainly, most of us know "Cancer" and its severity, and recently a type of cancer like Cervical Cancer has become the number one death leading diseases in Thai female including  women around the world, in fact, 7 people a day on the average have died from the disease. 
This is a reason why we all must know about Cervical cancer thoroughly  
HPV Virus is a cause of  "Cervical cancer"
"Cervical cancer" is not caused by heredity; conversely, a major cause is virus infection. 
The study found that by 99.7% of cervical cancer patients have the virus called Human Papillomavirus (HPV), which consists of different types. 
However, there are merely about 30 species that cause the infection to the genitals of men and women. 
In fact, HPV infection is mostly found in women aged 18-28 years or those who used to have sex, including those who are in between 35-50 years of age depending on the duration of infection. 
However, the development approximate takes 10 years to express.
The "cervical cancer" is preventable
Avoid having sex during young age in order to reduce the risk of HPV infection, therefore, this means adolescents are considered being at high risk as the up to date change of intercourse activities.
Focus on cervical cancer screening.
Pap smear is a pelvic examination along with cytology. 
A process can be done quickly and easily  used for a screening test in order to detect some abnormalities of cervical cells. 
ThinPrep is a cervical cancer screening  which is similar to the Pap smear. 
ThinPrep will provide you more detail of the examination than Pap smear. 
Doctors often recommend their patients to be examined by this screening.
Receiving vaccine against the cervical cancer is another solution
The discovery of modern science leads to the development of four types-vaccines (6,11,16,18), which reduces the chance of cervical cancer by 70% ,as a result of HPV infection,  the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved that before being infected, this vaccine  can give you 100 percent prevention of  cervical cancer caused by main type of HPV. 
Furthermore, it helps protect you from HPV infection by not causing the body cancer; conversely, it causes you genital warts. 
However, the vaccine can be given to girls whose age starts from 9. 
According to sex value, nowadays is different from the past.  
However, apart from having vaccination to prevent cervical cancer, "Cervical cancer screening" is also important.  
Women in every age who used to have sex, including those  who have never had intercourse until the age of 30 or older, should also be screened for the cervical cancer every year whereas, when the risk of cervical cancer is detected early, it increases patients the chances of being cured.

 

