If you are one who feel very sweaty all the time whether that occurs in your hands, feet or armpits. 
This cannot be good. 
Letting this condition becomes a barrier to life and affect your personality is not a right option. 
Today, in this article, an important information provided by senior surgeon of Phyathai Navamin Hospital POL.MAJ.GEN.Dr. Warin Wachirapunyanukul for those struggling from “Hyperthydrosis” is served below.
The beginning of "sweat"
Our bodies consist of different organs that work together and divide into different processes. 
One of them is known as Metabolism. 
An important procedure of the body which turn the food we intake to energy. 
Later, the body heat would be evaporated in the form of "sweat" to control the heat by an appropriate level. 
A cycle can be called as "Sweat Secretion or “Body Heat Transfer”.
Causes of "Hyperhidrosis"
Excessive sweating or Hyperthydrosis is a condition when the body starts to sweat with excess amount even a weather is normal. 
There are two types of symptoms which are divided into two categories: primary hyperhydrosis and secondary hyperhydrosis.
Primary Hyperhydrosis This group is characterized by excessive sweating. 
There is no exact cause or any complication from the other diseases. 
A symptom can occur in both female and male. 
However, in this group patients usually intensively sweat in some parts of the body, such as, face, head, armpits and palms. 
Moreover, when the body extremely sweats in the palm area, a condition is called sweaty hands. 
The primary hyperhydrosis is common disorder happening to young people or adolescence age under 25. 
By 30-40% of people are in a family that has this condition as inheritance. 
Some patients have a lot of sweat on their hands so they are unable to write or catch their belongings. 
The condition causes problems in terms of work, socialization and daily living
Secondary Hyperhydrosis
In this group patients have a sweat even during a sleep.
This is due to the side effects of other diseases, for example:
Thyrotoxaemia, the body has high metabolism.
Tuberculosis; lung disease
Lymphoma
Obesity
During Menopausal
Some medicines
The Requirements of Diagnosis and Target Treatment Plan
In the beginning, a physician has to identify or diagnoses patient’s symptom by observing the sweating to see a level of severity and provide a proper treatment. 
For example, patients with secondary symptoms the doctor then will perform other tests to diagnose the cause of these diseases: detecting thyroid function in case of Thyrotoxaemia or cooperating with endocrinologist for patient with obesity. 
In addition, the study found that the incidence of primary hyperhidrosis is found in population by 0.6 to 1 percent.
2 options of treatment
In treatment of Hyperhydrosis there are 2 options: Surgical and Non-surgical treatment depending on the doctor's consideration along with patient’s decision which the treatment could be provided by medication, injection or surgery.
Non-surgical treatmentit can be done by a use of aluminum chloride or botulinum toxin injection, however, this treatment is only for palliative care means that a result would not be last.
Thoracoscopic sympathectomy This is only method that can cure patients. 
The principle of perspiration has been used in this treatment, which explained about the perspiration that it is caused by sympathetic nervous system of the brain. 
In fact, there is a signal sent to different nerves through the sympathetic ganglion, which later would reach the last site where the sweat would be secreted. 
As mentioned, a process helps surgeons cut some ganglions that are the signal of sweating. 
However, the specific areas like face, hands or armpits would not contain excessive sweating as the sweat gland is unable to receive the signal.
At present, Phayathai Nawamin Hospital has specialists for the treatment of Hyperhidrosis. 
One of experienced surgeons specializing in general surgery and endoscopic surgery is POL.MAJ.GEN.Dr.Warin Wachirapunyanukul who have experienced from more than 500 cases with Hyperhidrosis.

 