We believe that many people have lost their confidence in talking and smiling.
This happens due to tooth problems like color, decay, gap, tiny or imbalanced size as well as fracture. Accordingly, veneer can be your best solution, which gives you back the confidence.
What is "veneer"?
Veneer is a type of crown. 
A process provides patients artificial teeth, which is similar to a general crown but it does not cover the entire tooth area. 
However, a doctor always applies thin coating to the area of interchangeable facing or your teeth’s skin in order to solve the mentioned problems, such as, mottled tooth, grey color, irregular shape as well as snaggle tooth.
Two Different Types: Two Different Materials
1. Veneers made of composite resin; It provides you the closest shape and color of real teeth.
A price is inexpensive but, a result may not be permanent , because some of materials contain color absorption quality. 
Meaning that if that patients start to drink tea, coffee or smoke after 2 or 3 years, the color will change and a new one together with the process will be made again. 
According to that reason, the process takes one time to complete but it quite long. Therefore, if there are 6-8 teeth that need to be treated, it may take up to 3 hours.
2. Veneer made of ceramic; The advantage of ceramic veneer is that it has no color absorption quality but quite expensive. 
However, in terms of durability, if patients receive a proper fit teeth. 
In this case according to a research found that over 95 percent of them can have the crown for more than 10 years. 
Furthermore, to receive the treatment, patients are required to see a dentist at least twice. 
The first time is to receive teeth drilling and make tooth impression, then send to the lab. 
On the other hand, the second time is made while waiting for a result, which is different from the previous.
A dentist then will apply dental restorative materials to patients for temporary, later, about 1-2 weeks later actual veneer will be replaced.
Veneer Procedure
Step 1: Talk to your dentist about your needs. 
Some problems may be solved by other processes, such as teeth whitening, fillings, teeth, etc.
Step 2: After your decision is made, a next step is to make impression or your teeth by cloning model for the crown.
A communicating between patients and doctor to ensure an optimal is need during the procedure so that the doctor can give the best resulting to the patients.
Step 3: A preparation for dental drill or teeth reshaping has to be made based on cases for example, if the teeth are already have perfect arranged line. 
The 0.5 millimeter drill process will only be made for the patients. 
In fact, in the case of buck teeth, the drilling has to be more intense according to the suitability of teeth lining.
Step 4:Put the Veneer on the teeth.
After Procedure
After the procedure you will have beautiful teeth which absolutely close to your actual teeth. 
They can be cleaned by brushing or using dental floss as well as scaling. 
In addition, its function can work closely to the actual teeth. 
Therefore, patients should not be worried about any bad effect after having the veneer.