How dangerous it can be if you extend Osteoarthritis without a treatment?
There are a lot of people having Osteoarthritis who are too afraid to receive a treatment, including not knowing that their decision would make things more severe, especially to the nearby organs in the future. 
Accordingly, AVM Dr. Chumroonkiet Leelasestaporn, a surgeon specialized in Computer Assisted Navigation in TKA and THA at Phyathai Nawamin hospital will give you some advices on this.
Not all cases...need surgery
In fact, doctors will not suggest surgery as a treatment in every case. they will apply it as the last alternative treatment only in the case that they see its benefits for the patients. 
However, when the surgery is needed, it is essential to receive the surgery as soon as possible since in some case, the causes might be related to patients’ lifestyle. 
Once the inappropriate behavior is resolved, there is the high possibility of being back to normal stage or at least avoid getting more severe. 
Some patients might only need an exercise. 
If it is not getting better, an x-ray will be provided which usually the disk is found ruptured, then laparoscopic surgery will be applied to clean the joint and fix the cartilage. 
This alternative will not harm your joint. 
On the other hand, in a severe case of which the knee bones are all broken, you might need another method for a surgery due to an injection or medication may not work for this situation.
Osteoarthritis Extension
The doctor states that most of the time when the patients have only one knee Osteoarthritis, instead of getting a treatment they will then use another side intensively. 
As mentioned case, having an early surgery of the that one leg saves you from a delayed operation which causes both of the legs more deteriorations and eventually lead you to receive a surgical treatment on both sides of their legs.  
However, the results of the surgery only base on tendon condition.
Uneven legs and Spondylosis
In reference to what the doctor has mentioned, you better receive a surgery in an early stage. 
At the same time, a problem is that the unbalanced legs can cause you spondylosis which after one leg surgery, patients will suffer from the Osteoarthritis in both knees, their legs would then be unbalanced and that affect their back until they cannot bear, later they might have to do another surgery for their back. 
From the statistic, there are a lot of patients coming back to receive the surgery on another side of their legs when it is too late which lead to another severe problem. 
Thus, if you have Osteoarthritis on both knee, it is recommended to immediately receive the surgery on both knee at the same time.