Good immunity is a foundation of having good health and not easily being infected by diseases or illness, including good development and being in good emotional state. 
Accordingly, parents need a good counselor who can provide them the right knowledge.
We are more than ready to take care of you loved one
Pediatrics Center Phyathai Nawamin Hospital has been trusted by many parents and that has initiated us to develop and improve services, which finally results in new aspect. 
Treatments will not only be provided when your baby gets sick. 
According to our teams, a process does focus on disease prevention as well as risk screening in order to not let healthy kids become ill, for example, full vaccination that is appropriate with their ages, screening for disease or any abnormal condition. 
Moreover, physical and emotional development examination is included in order to monitor and give advice to parents. 
So when some abnormalities are found, a remedy then will be served to patients quickly by a team of medical specialists, full of medical equipment.
The importance of “Vaccine”
The Doctor has said that vaccination is very necessary for young children whereas the immunity in children still does not work well. 
Their bodies cannot resist certain pathogens. 
However, a child who is vaccinated inadequately or receives delayed injections, this child may have more risks of diseases. 
In fact, although the vaccine does not involve in development areas of children directly, but if they miss a chance to receive that can lead them to health problems including the development in the future.
Best Protection
Doctor Pornnapa Saetung, Pediatric Specialist, at Phayathai Nawamin, who initiated the Bright Future project stated that 
Generally, children age 0-15 must be vaccinated according to their immunization schedule of 10 principles regulated by the Ministry of Health. 
However, for more comprehensive protection, in the Bright Future program, we have added the appropriate vaccines in each age, such as the Rota vaccine, HIB vaccine to prevent Meningitis including, vaccines that prevent children from chickenpox, flu, and IPD vaccine that protects yourself from pneumococcal infections”
Parents will also receive instruction and guidance for taking care of their children during each age including getting to learn about the behavioral observation these prepare the parents for a child next-age development. 
In addition, following a process helps the person who looks after the kids with a way of explaining or describing about disorders to doctors, also it is very helpful in seeing the problem so that pediatricians are able to provide screening better.



