Excess fat is number one top-cause of "obesity" in Thai people leading to the risk of diabetes, hyperlipidemia, hypertension, cardiovascular diseases, stroke, including some types of cancer such as colon cancer. 
Therefore a detection of excess fat is very necessary as it can reduce the risk of many diseases that may occur in the future.
A simple way to check your excess fat ..
BMI Calculation
Check the body weight and height by Weighing Scales and Height Measuring Scales, then calculate the number of both scales to find body mass index or BMI. 
The BMI Value of Asians is 25kg/m2 while Europeans is 30 kg/m2, those whose BMI values go over mentioned are considered having “Obesity” 
Girth
Start measuring from the midpoint of your waist’s side; between the edge of lower rib and the upper part of hipbone. 
Using waist circumference by attaching it to the waist paralleled to the floor. 
However, having the result of waist length ≥90 cm in male and ≥80 cm in female, indicate them having the "Obesity"
Intensive Excess-Fat Screening
Fat Mass Analyzing; the screening of Percent of Total body fat, Regional fat mass, such as limbs fat and body fat called subcutaneous fat.
Detection of visceral fat in the abdomen; A value can indicate or assess the risk of coronary heart disease. 
The visceral fat is vital as it creates many kinds of biochemical substances that stimulate chronic inflammation, leading to many diseases such as diabetes, high blood pressure and cardiovascular diseases.
Fat distribution pattern screening; In general, the tendency of men’s body always contain accumulated fat in the upper part of their of their bodies, such as torso, neck, shoulders and chest called Android type / Apple. 
On the other hand, female body contains the fat in the hip and groin area called the Gynoid type/ Pear-shaped type. 
However, scanning by DXA whole body scan will help calculate the ratio of your Android / Gynoid fat ratio or A / G ratio to present yourself on how fat distribution processes.
Lean muscle mass calculation; it is a process of total lean mass and regional lean mass calculation, such as the lean mass of the limbs or trunk.
This analytic process can evaluate Sarcopenia, commonly found in people with obesity, in elderly or those who have chronic diseases like diabetes, renal failure, lung diseases including malnutrition. 
Bone Mineral Density (BMD); The analyzing is made on every part of the body except the head. 
The Bone Mass Index screening by DXA whole body scan is now very beneficial in pediatric patients. 
For adults, the bone mass index is always detected at the lower back (Lumbar spine) including left femoral bone (bone) as a process gives more accurate resulting than other methods according to many researches and studies.