Hand Foot Mouth Disease in Children and Prevention
The Hand Foot Mouth Disease does not just exist in this world actually it occurs in Thailand in the past but there is no any official announcement on how it affects people due to its mild level of severity which might not many kids or someone death.
However, parents should not overlook about it in regard to this topic here is the information helps parents prepare for the prevention.
What is The Cause of Hand Foot Mouth Disease?
This disease is caused by Enterovirus 71 (EV71) Coxasackie Virus.
The incubation period is about 3-6 days.
After infection, mostly people found being infected known as risk groups would be children aged under 5, especially children aged from 6 months - 3 years old.
How The Transmission Process Work?
This disease can be contacted easily by nearly hundred percent of infection rate from one person to one another, especially in young children during the outbreak.
Salivary transferred by oral ulcer
Getting infected by eating food contaminated with the virus.
The infection still appears after symptoms are being shown. The disease will remain during the first week or might take longer than that.
The Symptoms
Children with 3-4 days of high fever and Vesicle on the palms, feet, tongue and gingiva.
On the first day patient will feel pain and unable to eat along with over amount of saliva as well as rashes on both legs.
However, the fever will be decreased within 5-7 days.
In adult, symptoms might be different for example high fever, muscular weakness, oral ulcer.
Most of symptoms will disappear within 1 week the vesicle and on the palms, feet will gradually disappear. 
One of complications that will be found could be meningitis and myocarditis.
These symptoms Require Children to See a Doctor
Having fever over 39 degrees Celsius for more than 2 days.
Feeling Exhausted
Feeling sleepy all day.
Vomiting for more often than 2-3 times a day.
Having Muscular Weakness
Being restless and shocking.
Guidelines for Treatment
In general, symptoms will improve themselves. 
A doctor will treat patients on the basis of symptoms.
Some children are unable to have food and water due to the ulcer in their mouth.
For that reason, they then avoid swallowing food or saliva due to the pain including not cleaning or looking after oral health causing it to be healed longer on account of complication.
The doctor mostly provide saline along with cleaning the oral area. Moreover, antibiotics will be used only when it is necessary.
However, patients require these behavioural modification as follows:
Taking good care of personal hygiene such as washing hands.
Eating clean food and always use serving spoon while having meals with other people.
Patients should wear a mask and wash hands including mucus and saliva etc.
Hygienic Care to Prevent Disease
Although there is no vaccine against the disease.
The best protection is hand washing, personal hygiene and toys cleanness and appliances.
Avoid taking your child to a place where they can be exposed to the disease, such as playgrounds.