Once we are happy, we are happy together. 
So when one gets hurt, it’s impossible that another will be happy. 
We have to face it together.
said  the wife of colon cancer patient, who has her smile back after her husband received proper treatment at Phyathai2 Hospital
The minute being told that your husband has Colon Cancer…
At first, my husband was bleeding during defecation. 
So I took him to see the familiar doctor. 
Once he got screening, the lumps were discovered and the cancer had spread to the lung and liver already”
Seeing your love one suffers…the new alternative for treatment is needed
When the disease is detected, treatment might take about 4-5 months. 
Unfortunately, once the drug is provided, later, the body can go against it as I found he became unable to take medicine or to have foods along with weight loss. 
The doctor must stop providing the drugs right after he found that the patient’s body is not ready. 
Meanwhile, one of my cousins suggested me to go to Phyathai2 Hospital. 
So I decided to move him here, whereas my cousin’s symptom was improved after receiving the treatment from this hospital”
First Impression after receiving Treatment at Phyathai2 Hospital
According to vomiting, hiccups, and inability to eat, a doctor decided to provide tube feeding. 
His weight then started to increase, which means the medicine could be given to him constantly. 
This treatment helps strengthen the body and prepares himself for medication taking”
Getting to know the disease better from a specialist
Comparing to his previous treatment from another hospital, a process is quite the same including medication and complication, however, what makes both hospitals different is a discussion between doctors and family. 
At phyathai2 Hospital, firstly, a family has to know and understand about the disease, as my husband’s doctor said he might feel numb on his foot, so he needed to avoid sunlight exposure, at the same time, the dry skin could happen, then I put lotion on that area for him, luckily he did not suffer from both the skin drying or numbness.
Multidisciplinary Team Work Creates “TRUST”       
We first met Dr.Teerasan Tantitemit, he set a team for cancer treatment also Dr. Prasan Kachonrattanadet who monitored chemotherapy while Dr.Sombat Leelasupasri focused on infection. 
At the same time, Dr. Maneerat watched in case of diabetes care. 
The team has taken care of us well, his symptoms have improved and at present, he still receives the treatment from Phyathai2 Hospital.
Every moment is their concerns
I can contact to the doctor every time, even the time I called I did not know whether he was taking care of other patients or not. 
Also, in case of emergency I was able to make a call right away and told what was happening, this is so impressive which I did not know whether I can get this from other hospital”
We were impressed by nurses on the 10th Floor; we used to follow them to the 9th floor. 
They knew what my husband needed to do, I felt relax and that was a strong bond between us. 