We strongly believe that getting some information about big operation especially “Gallbladder Surgery” in advance can help relieves anxiety of both patients and family. 
As mentioned, in this article we have provided you basic knowledge about the surgery called Laparoscopic Gallbladder surgery for Gallstones from General Surgeon at Phyathai Nawamin Hospital Dr.Sujin Sukhahuta as follows
1st Step : Physical Examination
After patients are found having gallstones, doctors then need to prepare them for the process by providing lung screening, heart screening as well as blood test and disease screening basing on age and health condition. 
This is done to access some risks that may occur during the procedure. 
However, after all checkings, they will be sent to the next step.
2nd Step: Hospital Stay for surgery preparation
After the patient has been assessed to protect some risks that may happen in surgery including receiving physical examination. 
Doctors usually make their patients stay in hospital before the operation to receive saline as a part of the process. Moreover, fasting is required for about 6-8 hours before undergoing the procedure.
3rd Step: Moving to the operating room
When the process starts, anesthesiologist then will provide anaesthetic to the patients. 
After that, 3 to 4 small incisions (cuts) will be made under the navel, chest and rib around 2-3 cm. so that medical tool can be inserted through the cuts while the gallbladder can also be clamped off from the abdomen. 
This procedure is not only used to remove the gallstone, but it also used for complete gallbladder removal.
4th Step: Complete the process
After the gallbladder removal being completed, the doctor then will suture the wound. 
As soon as the patients recover and there is no bad side effects such as fever, nausea, vomiting within 1-2 nights meaning that they can have food and return home to live lives normally.
Even the surgical procedure is finished but self-care after surgery is still essential for the patients in order that they can have the most effective result from the procedure.