Cancer in women is   well-known disease in general, for example, breast cancer or cervical cancer. 
In addition, "Ovarian cancer" is also one of the top death diseases related to female genitalia cancer. 
“Menstruation” is a risk factor of ovarian cancer
Although, the cause of "Ovarian cancer" is undefined, still one of the factors is Menstruation, whereas, it is considered as stimulus of ovary injury. 
According to ovulation in each month, it can create a small wound to the ovary, which later will disappear. 
In fact, if the ovulation frequently happens, certainly, it might cause you a risk of the ovarian cancer as   well. 
Moreover, those who have reached the menstruation before 12 years of age includes those continue having it until 55 years of age as well as women who have never been pregnant, all are having the risk.  
Do you know "Applying talcum powder to the genital causes you ovarian cancer”?
Obstetrician and Gynecologist, Dr. Thanom Sathitid specializing in Gynecologic Cancer has disclosed that  one of the most important factors of this disease is  the use of talcum on female genital area, especially,  mothers  who like to dab the powder  at the whole baby’s body after bath. 
When the powder goes through the abdomen cavity is likely to promote the cancer.  
Accordingly, Dr. Thanomsiri added   that , for that reason, the mothers should  stop doing it. 
Moreover,  having high-fat food is also considered as carcinogenic. 
"Abdominal pain" is not gastritis.
Warning signs of latent symptoms that may cause to be  at risk for ovarian cancer are flatulence, abdominal discomfort and  enlarged  stomach, which all could  similar to the symptoms of gastritis. 
Mostly patients suspect of the gastritis. 
That extends a period of aggression, and in the end, they might reach the last stage, at that same time there will be no chance of cure.  
Therefore, what every female should not ignore is an annual internal examination as the ovaries can be detected in early. 
Chances of cure and simple process of treatment providing are higher than being treated during the other stages of disease.  
What are the processes of “Ovarian Cancer" Diagnosis?
Diagnosing ovarian cancer, Doctors have to provide PV screening includes physical examination thoroughly. 
In case of the lumps are found in the adnexa uteri, most of cases require additional examination by ultrasound in order to detect its appearance. 
However, if some other organs inside the abdomen cavity are also required to have extra examination, for that reason, X-ray, CT scan and MRI then will be provided. 
The faster you detect the ovarian cancer, the more possibilities you have for a cure
After the surgery, most of the patients will stay in a hospital 4-5 days later. 
Obstetricians then will cut the uterus, adnexa uteri and ovaries, next is storing the abdominal cavity water, latterly will cut the intestinal fat and makes biopsy of Pelvic Lmyph Nodes and large artery in the abdomen to see where the cancer spreads which may not be seen by the eye. 
However, if there is no spread of cancer. 
The surgical treatment will be made afterward, in contrast to the spread or worse condition, chemotherapy must be given immediately.
What are the side effects of chemotherapy?
Chemotherapy can cause some side effects such as pallor, infection due to low white blood cells or low platelets. 
However, currently, the drug has been developed to reduce some side effects such as, nausea and vomiting.
"Hair Loss" another side effect of chemotherapy
It can be hard to cope with hair loss, especially in female. 
The Obstetrician added that after done with the chemotherapy without medication requirement. 
This case, the hair can grow back later, however, during a growing process, you can have time to select the best hair design for yourself by wearing wigs, which is good for you to turn this situation with positivity.
"Ovarian cancer" has no obvious cause. 
The best prevention is to receive Per Vaginal Examination every year" because during the first stage its symptoms might not be noticed and might be too late for a cure. 
In fact, the conception of ignoring screening that you might think it is unnecessary; certainly that is a your big mistake.

