Everytime, woman has many difficulties to keep themselves looking fabulous, apart from that external beauty. 
Another important thing that all females cannot overlook is health condition, especially to check up “ the breast” regularly as some abnormalities might occur to the organ and eventually lead them to breast cancer. 
Accordingly, here is the list of breast self-exam for all women. 
When do we need Breast Screening?
After 7-10 days, by counting it on the the first day of menstrual period
Regularly check it every month
After menstruation, always check it up on the same day every month
Here is 6 ways for your "Breast Self-Exam”
Stand in front of mirror and look at both sides of your breast, observe the size, shape, skin color includes nipple position, then compare a change of your breast to last month.
After that, lift your two arms over your head and look at the breast again. 
Slowly turn your body to see the side of the breast.
Hands on the waist and slightly lean the body forward to observe the changes once again.
Use your fingers to gently squeeze the nipples in order to see if there is blood or mucus flowing out of the nipples.
Start touching your breast from the collarbone, use the left hand for groping on the right breast. 
Press your 3 fingers: index ,middle, and ring on the skin gently, and gradually increase an intensity of pressing until you can feel the ribs, however, do a groping on the breast in every direction. 
It can be done differently. 
The important is keep doing it all the way to the armpit including the area under armpit, then repeat it again on the other side.
When you are done standing, change to a sleep posture in order to provide that same self-exam, put a pillow under the shoulder in which the exam will be started. 
Once found disorders immediately go to see the doctor
Have a lump on the breast or under the armpits
Have blood or pus flow out of the nipples.
Be sore or pain on the breast
Have a thick lump inside the breast
Therefore, you should notice abnormalities regularly, in case of they are being found, go see a doctor immediately in order to seek for the cause and have a treatment in time.