Breast is an important issue for women. 
Improper shape can lower a self-esteem when you try clothes on as there is no curve. 
In fact, nowadays, women tend to pay more attentions to breast surgery as there are many process to have a natural beauty look of their breasts.
Surely, before having a surgery, some more research is needed. 
Each of you have a different favor. 
Some might have the shape in mind already while some still do not know which shape should they go with, therefore they will not feel satisfied after it is done leading to more time of surgery which is such a waste of time and money. 
To avoid such issue, we should precisely study more on breast implant surgery.
Which sizes you prefer?
Many people are not certain about they really need. 
Instead, only want their breast as large as possible. 
In the reality, they should choose a proper size matching with their body. 
Misfit of breast size will lead to an uncomfortable feeling, loss of being confident during interacting with others.
Enlarging the breast size…“Round” or “Teardrop” which one matches your style?
Breast surgery does not only about the size, but it is also about the shape. 
Body shape is main things that should be concerned. 
However, mostly, the style of breast augmented surgery with silicone are round and teardrop.
Round silicone breast implants
This shape is for women who want their breasts to be salient and round, suit with those who have fatty tissue within the area. 
Silicon will be filled in the upper part of the breast. 
This implant matches the breast with enough volume. 
Some might want to take a slightly adjustment on the upper part. 
In fact, the round silicone implants are soft and elastic, so, the breast naturally will flow into lower areas, which make it look like a teardrop while standing and sitting. 
Especially in sleeping posture.
Teardrop breast implant
The teardrop implant creates the breast shape with a little slope to provide a look of teardrop which is considered as the main different thing from round breast implant.  
However, it is applied in those of which middle area of the breasts are facing with a condition of Pectus Carinatum by helps filling volume at their breast’s base and shape up their nipples. 
This will be fit for undersize or downward position with a natural look.
As you can see, having a breast surgery is not only about the preferences whereas you all have a different type of breast. 
Thus, in case of not having confidence, then you should feel free to consult specialized surgeons. 
They will find a best solution fits for you.   

