Development of Muscles(Gross Motor Skills)
The development of child muscle comes in different forms based on age and ability for example during their 5-7 months old a child should know how to sit. 
Observing the child's behavior in various ways parents should have a database or guideline of the developmental capabilities in hand as it is easy to observe the ability of the child whether something is wrong with them or not. 
The capacity starts from body movement neck, hands, posture,jumping and so on. 
In addition, when a child knows how to sit, teaching them to change a posture from standing to anything else like crawling from one spot to another to grab a toy. 
When the children aged over 5. 
There will be more movement in their body. 
The relation in organ function and movement would be more conjoint for example jumping, kicking a ball, cycling these are functions of the body that involve both arms and legs. 
Development of Small Muscles (Fine Motor Skills)
For the Fine Motor Skills, parts of the muscles parents should focus on are hands,eyes, lips like, teaching the to grab an object from the floor or grabbing object tight and release, playing a wood-block building, molding plasticine, cutting paper using scissor, feeding themselves food using spoon and fork, brushing teeth, drawing or painting etc. 
The lips muscles observed by looking at how the lips is closed and opened or how the saliva flows as well as different directions of tongue moving. 
If there is an abnormality, it may affect communication skills of children in the future as the muscles around the lips support a child's voice. 
Next is eye muscles, while a child is looking through object or something too long that can help parents detect some disorders such as autistic. 
Kids with this condition might not look at people’s face during interaction.
However, in order to observe behavior including paying attention to improve their development parents should have information about their development in each age . 
Moreover, the effective way of letting them play is parents must come help only when thing is hard for a child to understand. 
Furthermore,creating good atmosphere that supports the activity is recommended as this contribute to bonding between kids and parents including developing learning skills in both of them. 
If you are unsure or have any question please contact a doctor or therapist for more information so that your child can receive accurate screening as well as evaluating to improve capability of him or her properly.

 