If one day in the morning you wake up and find that the stools consists of blood. 
It might cause you worry and upset. 
However, there are many forms of this defecation. 
According to that, the consultant at ASIT Advanced Surgical Interventional Technologies at Phyathai 3 Hospital Center has all answers served for you.
Severity of Blood in Stool
Blood in stool is easy to be noticed, for example bleeding after defecation or sometimes the blood is already in the stools showing as a sign of abnormality. 
However, each defecation differentiates types of diseases not only for the hemorrhoids but also the other serious illness. 
Therefore, it is very important to consult your doctor for an accurate treatment and precise resulting.
What The Stool Tells You
The severity of the disease is based on how many times the defecation comes with the bleeding or blood which also includes the amount of the blood. 
In fact, people who have more blood are possibly facing many diseases in the future while those having the bleeding after the defecation may only have the anal ulcer. 
However, this symptom can define a condition of bleeding inside the colon caused by some disorders as well.
Hemorrhoids
Blood in the stool is a major sign of this disease caused by many factors such as chronic pulling or pushing during the defecation, diarrhea and constipation. 
As mentioned, the anal veins then become swollen and cannot go down. 
Consequently they change to hemorrhoids blisters, some patients have the severe inflamed blisters which prolapse outside the anus and be unable to get back inside causing that person severe pain while walking or sitting. 
In addition, every defecation, there will be followed by the bleeding including drop of the blood found in tissue after cleaning. 
On the other hand, those who do not have blood in the stool and pain or do not suffer from mentioned symptoms periodically will have feeling of pulling pain around the anal area along with itching as well as obstructive defecation.
Colon Vessels Disorder
This disease is caused by small blood vessels. There are unusual blood in two forms clot and liquid without abdominal pain. 
Moreover, it is often found in elderly aged over 70. 
However, the bleeding can stop by itself but patients still require to see a doctor to ensure a condition as this may be a sign of some dangerous diseases.
Polyp
It is caused by hereditary abnormalities which mostly happens in men aged over 50. 
It can develop to cancer as well as being able to occur in any part of the colon. 
Its shape is circle and color is pink. By the way what you should know that this thing can grow inside the colon with various amounts. 
Most patients have no symptom showing while sometime the bleeding may occur inside. 
In fact, this is one of reasons why the stool comes with the blood. 
Such a symptom happens irregularly and most of doctors always rememend their patients aged over 50 to receive a proper colon screening to detect the polyp that may occur without noticing.
Colitis
It is caused by certain infectious diseases such as dysentery. 
The major symptoms are shown by stool appearance such as when the stool comes with liquid form like water or sometimes patients may have frequent defecation along with fever, anorexia, abdominal pain and blood. 
However, as mentioned the patients require having an additional screening based on the condition.
Colon cancer
This disease happens to people around the world including Thailand which now becomes a common illness. 
Most patients are people aged over 60. 
They have to experience some abnormalities, for example constipation, diarrhea or blood in stools, etc. However, some patients come to the doctor due to the blood loss that leads them to anemia. 
In addition, this cancer is usually found around the colon area such as abdominal cavity. 
It is caused by eating habits; those who love having food that contain high fat have high risk for the disease including those having transferring from genetic. 
The cancer cannot be cured so that it requires patients to receive colonoscopy in order to remove cancerous part and prevent its spreading.