As we know that, most of us often overlook symptom of back or spinal pain taking a medicine or adjusting some behaviors to get better are simple treatment. 
However, if that is not just a general pain of the back but, spinal diseases. 
It may lead to worst condition and become chronic pain.
After receiving diagnosis from doctor it is essential to have the surgical treatment which is currently used for patients called “Minimally Invasive Spine Surgery” or “MISS”
From Open Spine Surgery to Minimally Invasive Spine Surgery
Spinal diseases can be found in different ages such as teens, adult and old people. 
In the past, spinal surgery was performed by open operation. 
However, today, a medical innovation of spinal surgery has been improved to provides minimal surgical wound with no open procedure called “Minimally Invasive Spine Surgery” Receiving this treatment patient can recover fast also, chance of complications will be lowered, which is better than old procedure.
Why “MISS” provides a better result than open-surgical treatment?
As mentioned, the MISS does not causes large surgical wound after procedure, patient will not suffer from pain, blood loss, complications especially old people also, they can have fast recovery.
Moreover, it can be applied as treatment of spinal diseases such as, Spine Fracture, Herniated disc, Spinal Tumor and Spinal Infection.
Surgery approach for each patient
The MISS can be provided to patients of different ages especially, elderly as this procedure does not harm muscular system as well as other organs. 
The MISS provides small surgical wound after procedure and prevents blood loss effects during surgery moreover, it also helps patients recover fast. 
Therefore, resting in a hospital for many days is not needed as they can go back home and go back to their regular lives faster.
Signs of Spinal Diseases
Nerves pain (pain around arms, shoulder, legs or hips
Muscular weakness ( Arms, Hands, Legs, Knee and Ankle)
Numbness in various parts of the body such as arms, legs and hands
Abnormal bleeding occurs from every part of the body such as coughing with blood, having blood during defecation. 
Symptoms may relate to spinal compression.
Behaviors that reduce the risk of spinal disease
Not sitting in the same posture for a long time due to it can causes muscle weakness
Always exercise to increase muscles around the spine, you should avoid an intensive workout. 
Strong muscles and ligament can stabilize and support the spine which prevents you from “Spondylosis”
Avoid being attacked forcefully , jumping or stretching the spine incorrectly
Keep being healthy, eating good foods that rich in calcium to sustains the bones
Regarding body weight standard, you have to control body weight to prevent the spine from carrying heavy body weight.