Headache can happen to everyone of us. 
Some people may suffer from its pain quickly while the pain may continue progressing in certain people periodically to 1 year complete. 
You should not overlook such symptoms as that may not only be a normal headache but it could be deprived from one of brain malfunctions called "Brain tumor"
What is Tumor?
The brain tumors can be found in people from different ages and genders. 
The cause of this disease is remain unknown as mostly it just happens. 
Nevertheless, some patients may have genetic abnormalities. 
However that does not mean if a family member has this disease, then everyone also has it. 
Apart from that, those having radiation around head area or having head injury including immunosuppressive and chemical agents are also at risk.
Severity of Brain Tumor
Level 1: The tumors in this level is still on progressing or growing which has no spreading. 
Surgery can be made to cure a patient
Level 2: the severity of the tumors is moderate. 
They infiltrate in the brain tissue which this case cannot be cured. 
However, it takes time for their enlargement. 
Patients can continue living for more than a year.
Level 3: tumors in this level are classified as "cancer" which cannot be cured.
Level 4: a very serious stage of the tumor. 
Patients often die within a short time.
Symptoms of brain tumors
Severe headache which usually occurs during the morning after waking up and at night. 
It may wake a person up in the middle of the night as well.
Vomit without having nausea
Have convulsion divided into 2 types "Focal Seizures" and "Simple Focal Seizure” both are uncontrollable.
Feel weak in arms, this symptom will gradually increase.
Compression inside the brain causing blurred vision, unstable walk and hemiparesis
May experience acute unconsciousness in some case.
Cause Detection by MRI Brain Screening
As what previously mentioned that there is no exact cause of "Brain Tumors" MRI Screening to your brain helps providing clear vision for tumors or other abnormalities inside the brain. 
A process requires principle of electromagnetic wave to arrange the molecules and turn them into 3D Image so that the diagnosis of brain tumors can be made especially for the tumors in skull as well as in the brain or the brain stem.
Moreover, encephalitis or any other disease like demyelinating disease can also be screened by the process the doctors then can prepare for treatment plan properly.
Urgently Receive Treatment...Before it’s too late !!
Although the lumps are not malignant but leaving them untreated may cause the brain system compression and eventually leads to motor weakness, strabismus and facial Palsy. 
In addition; death is also included.
Behavioural Modification for Disease Prevention
There are no obvious causes for the disease. 
Therefore behavioral modification as follows are solution:
Take enough rest
Do exercise regularly
Have healthy meal
Do not drink alcohol
Do not smoke
Receive annual health check-up
As a result of above information proves that the brain is a major organ in the body. 
To detect for some abnormalities, it requires safe technique for an accrue resulting. 
In fact, when the symptoms appear please be hasty to send patients to a hospital so that doctors can be able to seek for main cause as well as proving a right treatment timely.


