Normally when we mention about Cancer Remedy Process; we are familiar with “Radiation Therapy” and “Chemo Therapy” Recently, there is a new alternative treatment for patients with cancer called “Targeted Therapy” a direct treatment being customized for individuals. 
Dr.Prasan Kachonrattanadet, Oncologist at Phyathai 2 Hospital will clarify the differences between this new method and traditional one.
What are the processes of Targeted Therapy? 
The doctor explained that before patients receive the treatment, doctors will examine the person's cancer cells to diagnose whether there are specific molecules or proteins in that patient, later, compare to the drugs that have already been approved and a shot will be provided into cancer cells directly. 
Each patient is treated by different types of medicines even though they suffer from the same type of cancer.
How do doctors consider the most optimal treatment being suited patients?
In Targeted Therapy, we have a process called Precision Medicine, which the doctors need to take several samples of cancer cells from many patients in order to analyze protein, molecules and genomes.  
One example of a process is "lung cancer", after taking lung cancer cells from a large number of patients to check. 
We would see that in patients with lung cancer, most cases what are the disorders that often be found, and then classify as a group, for example, a group of patients with abnormal proteins.
Abnormal gene will be caught, and drug design process will be made by genetic engineer afterward. 
Some medicines are difficult to produce; hence, certain genetic abnormalities cannot be treated.  
The differences of “Targeted Therapy” and “Traditional Treatment”
There are three main types of cancer treatment in a past: surgery, radiation and chemo therapy. 
Radiation and surgery, both presented the way of Targeted Therapy, which mean that the treatment is provided to cancer location directly such as cutting out the cancer from its site. 
Nevertheless, Chemo Therapy contains toxic which affects the cells, but Targeted Therapy stops the growth of cancer cells at the time that they are unable to develop, the cells will eventually die.
Moreover, the chemo is considered as non-targeted treatment, for instance, lung cancer patients have different cancer cells, but merely 3-4 of approved drugs can be used. 
This imply defines us that Targeted Therapy is like a Tailor- Made design, a cloth design that gives customers the most fit suit and dress individually in contrast to a dozen old fashioned garments.
Why does “Targeted Therapy” become the better solution?
Chemo Therapy works by destroying the cell division no matter the cell is a cancer cell or a normal cell. 
Conversely, Targeted Therapy is developed to prevent any side effect on normal cells, however, the Targeted treatment still has some slightly side effects, but the chance of severity is less.
 

