Even though Rhinoplasty has become normal for everyone, it is hard to make it looks natural like a real one. 
Hoever, today, we have some specific tips and information from our Medical Specialist in Plastic Surgery, Phyathai Sriracha Hospital, Dr.Adulayanut Aranyapal or Dr.Ping. 
Rhinoplasty techniques
In general, there are 2 alternatives for Rhinoplasty:
Closed technique : It is a Rhinoplasty technique that requires no cartilage restructuring. 
A surgeon will start from cutting a lesion inside your nostril and insert a matching silicone to uplift the nose curve and ridge. 
For this technique, either some of cartilage behind their ears or an artificial tissue might be used in process to make the nose even more natural.
Opened technique : This techniques suits with those who want to fix the nose’s bone and cartilage. 
It is a big surgery that requires the doctors to use an anesthesia which they have to cut the core of your nose and includes the nose hole to open it. 
Next step is providing hump resection and squeeze the nose to make the ridge smaller. 
Moreover, you can choose if you would like to shape the tip of your nose for more stunning look.
Your nose, your design
Surely, everyone has different tastes. 
Those receiving a procedure need some advices from their surgeons by the shape you want: straight up, narrow, long short or wide. 
Both patients and doctors have to discuss about alternatives and possibility.
Accordingly, patients should come to a conclusion on which shape they would like to go for before the surgery. 
Definitely, nose shape depends on your satisfaction, having a virtual picture before undergoing the process would provide the best result.
How to take care of yourself before and after the surgery
Before an operation, pimples should not be around the nose as it can cause infection, includes having a cold, at the same time, do not forget to inform the surgeon about medicine you take daily. 
Later, your nose will be cleaned, trimmed and sterilized by the doctor to make it as clean as possible.
After the operation, “The doctor will insert splint inside your nose and leave it for 5-7 days to hold the silicone. 
While the patients should provide cold compress right after the surgery, stop playing your phone and stop bent sitting as it can cause swollen bruise to the nose.”
Beautiful nose by Advanced Aesthetic Science
“The best result for nose surgery is when it seems like natural one. 
This resulting implies Advanced Aesthetic Science which about making your nose look beautiful and naturally fit in with your face rather than making it spike or high. 
Accordingly, natural beauty look from the surgery is the best satisfaction of all patients.” 
said Dr. Dulayanut Aranyapal.
 