Gastrointestinal diseases always come with symptoms caused by unidentified triggers. 
According to that reason, the Gastroenterology Specialists, Dr. Anupong Tangaroonsanti said, the screening by Manometry is a technology that helps diagnose esophageal functions includes muscles used in excretory system with more effective resulting, which means when the screening is directed to the cause of disease by the manimetry, then patients can have a better outcome also get close to their happiness.
Why Manometry?
This tool can check the compression of esophagus well whether it is esophagus compression or esophageal sphincter. 
Sometimes patients have dysphagia or chest pain while gastrointestinal endoscopy treatment is unable to detect a cause, accordingly, the screening by Manometry can be an interesting solution as a dysfunction of the esophagus can be seen through the Manimetry, such as an abnormal esophageal digesting or esophageal contraction, etc.
What Manometry can do?
The Manometry can detect all esophageal diseases, such as Achalasia or chest pain which is not caused by heart disease. 
However, this group of patients may have severe bronchospasm including the compression with unrelated reasons. 
In fact, the chest pain can come from gastric reflux. 
This case, a doctor then will send patients to an additional checkup by using 24 hour pH monitoring.
Chronic constipation screening by “Manometry”
When a doctor is unable to detect the cause of symptom and laxatives does not improve the constipation as well. 
A screening then will be given to the Ileum includes anal sphincter by the Manometry to see and observe the anal sphincter relaxation during defecation, a process benefits the treatment of chronic constipation caused by improper excretion.
Going through a cause helps patient heal faster
Doctor Anupong added that there is a 40-year-old Arabian man who came to a hospital with dysphagia. 
A laparoscopy had been provided to him before, at that time his doctor told that he was diagnosing with GERD. According to that diagnosis, after a treatment, the dysphagia did not seem to be improved.
Finally, he came back again, this time, the screening was done by Manometry, a result came out with alacasia. 
Balloon dilation then was provided to examine the sphincter, however, after the cause was spot, his symptom got better and he could return to normal life again.
 