Patients with final stage of cancer definitely cannot get over thought of death. 
Currently, in medical profession there is new treatment technique called “Targeted Therapy”. 
According to the technique, in this article Dr.Prasan Kachonrattanadet, specializing in cancerology, from Phyathai 2 hospital has confirmed that it really can prolong the end stage of cancer including lifetime of patients.  
Why does the Targeted Therapy always be applied to patients with last stage of cancer?
In the past, doctors would say that those having the end stage of cancer could live approximately in 6 months or longer around 10 months if they had chemotherapy. 
However, since the Targeted Therapy had been innovated and improved, a number of living extended, the patients could live longer, for example, lung cancer patients after receiving this innovated therapy along with other treatments, on average of their lifetimes  after treatment was 2 and 3 years longer, which could be said that the Targeted Therapy helps prolong the patients’ lives while the percentage of cure is still low. 
Moreover,  there are many types of cancer that are treated by Targeted Therapy in order to increase more chances of cure, such as, certain types of Breast cancers.
TRUE or NOT: a chance of cure is possible when cancer found in the first stage
In fact, this statement is still correct, for instance, in breast cancer patients, a disease can easily be found whereas people are able to do self-detection by groping for lumps on  their breasts and by receiving annual screening. 
However, around 60-70 percent of the breast cancer patients who come to see a doctor are those already reaching 1-3 stages. 
Conversely, for colon cancer patients, the first stage cannot be detected by themselves due to symptoms are still not being shown unless they receive a screening by doctors, which is expensive. 
Therefore, mostly a cancer will be detected during  last stage which more than 40-50 percent of patients normally seek a medical attention when it is too late.
Are there any limitation for the Targeted Therapy?
One of limitation is drug resistance. 
Some medicines might work at the beginning, but when it takes a year longer, the body then causes drug resistance. 
According to that, doctors have to cut some tissues to test and look for new method of Targeted Therapy, and if symptoms are not improved, then they have to provide patients Chemotherapy. 
In fact, to provide the targeted treatment, doctors can do it along with other treatment like chemo or only apply it alone to patients, also they can provide patients several types of the targeted therapy at once to cover all locations that have to be cured as well. 
Moreover, what we should know is that cancer cell naturally has several growing mechanisms, not only from 1 to 2 to 3 to 4 but it can be from A to B as well. 
Sometimes when doctors get rid of this type of mechanism, the cancer cell then start to mutate. 
Accordingly, there is no medication that can completely kill it, especially in the end stage.
Can the Targeted Therapy be applied to all kind of cancers?
The Targeted Therapy has been developed for more than 16-17 years. 
From that time until now, there are a lot of medications innovated to treat the cancer. 
Although they cannot be applied to all types of the cancer, they can respond to them more.
Message from the doctor…
Cancer symptom is various . 
Most of the time, the symptom will be based on the part of body where the cancer starts. 
Generally, the normal symptoms we can find are Blood in the feces or urine, chronic wound and being unable to eat as well as vomiting.
Meanwhile, blood in feces might cause by Hemorrhoids while, the blood in urine might only be the Bladder Inflammation, including sudden weight loss which might come from Thyrotoxicosis. 
Consequently, as a doctor he does not want you to get too stress about it.
It can simply be said that if you have chronic abnormalities and being unable to find an exact cause, then you should better visit a doctor. 
If the doctor also cannot find the cause, you can assume that it could be a sign of cancer.