We have been heard  that calcium can nourish our bones, still, we do not really know whether that is true or not. 
Thus, let’s go through the information below in order to know about the calcium better. 
What is “Calcium” ?
Simply, calcium is one of commonly found mineral in which 99 percent of calcium is located in our bone and teeth.  
Calcium is important for our cells.
In general the body produces several types of hormones to control the balance of calcium especially in blood so that it can be used in the cells properly also in organs and bones.
What happens if the body cannot produce calcium ?
Although calcium is in our body but the body cannot synthesize the calcium by itself. 
Accordingly, we have to consume it from food after digestion and being assimilated by the small intestine, however, people can only assimilate 20-25% of calcium they take for example, if the food contains 100 units of calcium then we only assimilate 20-25 units of it; the rest will be eliminated through feces.
Calcium VS Bone
When calcium has been absorbed from the intestinal cavity to bloodstream, later the blood will be used for transferring calcium to every organ in the body, which includes the bone. 
In addition the bone requires a nutrient and oxygen supported by blood. 
It consists of nerves and hormones that control function. 
In fact, the bones are gradually built inside the womb, and the intensity will continuously grow until the age of 25 to 30  in which the bone mass contains the most number of weight. 
On the other hand, at the age of 40, then it will ongoing decline as the older age. 
Therefore, you should watch over “BONE MINERAL DENSITY” to be away from a fracture and lower the risk of all types of osteoporosis.      
Healthy Bone is good for Knee Joint
When the body receives enough calcium, in this case means generally we need 800-1000 milligrams of calcium a day. 
Calcium helps boosting the intensity of the bone mass. 
Calcium is really important for us especially when we reach 30 years of age. 
Accordingly, a strong bone means a strong knee joint. 
Additionally, calcium is also good for your teeth, blood formation, heart rate and muscle efficiency.    