To take care of yourself is not only referred to physical condition but also referred internal system of the body. 
Women especially when being reached to the older age, have more risks of various diseases, for instance, breast cancer, cervical cancer and "Ovarian cancer"
Ovarian Cancer; One of the top gynecologic cancer diseases
The ovarian cancer is a female genital disease that causes the highest risk of death. 
We can find the “Ovarian cancer" from women in different ages, whether during their young ages or reproductive ages. 
In fact, the disease is mostly be found in females aged during the 40-60 years. 
Moreover, this cancer is caused by the growth of cancer cells in the ovaries and the important role of the organs is that they are the major organs which responds for eggs and hormones productions.
Who is the TARGET??
Certainly, this disease can only happen in females. 
People who are at risk are those who have irregular or frequent ovulation, meaning that there is the wound which would occur repeatedly after the ovulation. 
This can lead a person to the risk of the disease. 
Moreover, people of which families have a history of cancer, whether breast cancer, ovarian cancer, or cervical cancer, the inheritance can also contribute you to the ovarian cancer as well.
Risk symptoms
For ovarian cancer, the early stages might not be obvious, however, if these following symptoms are presented, consult your healthcare professionist for further diagnosis:
Feeling uncomfortable in the abdomen
Indigestion, nausea, flatulence
Abnormal bleeding from the vagina
Defecation disorders
Weight gain or loss for unknown reasons.
Prevention?
The simplest way to protect yourself is to exercise regularly, and have good foods that are beneficial to the body such as fruits and vegetables everyday. 
In fact, do not forget to receive annual health check-up as the checkup gives you pelvic examination includes ultrasound that help searching for some abnormalities. 
It starts from the beginning of disorders as well as it shows you the cells that will develop to the cancer in the future. 
However, we should always be aware of the body changes, in case of a disorder being found, please see your doctor for further detection.