Sleep Deprivation or Working Load might cause Body soreness. 
Sometimes, if you are one of those having symptom of irregular chronic pain and always end up taking pain killers or muscle relaxants, then what you should beware of is that the symptoms you are having might relate to spinal diseases.   
List of Symptoms that you should visit a doctor
The lower back pain along with such symptoms, for example, muscular weakness on legs.
Back pain along with lumbar pain and legs.
The pain remains for 3 months
Acute lumbar pain which causes you a difficulty in living.
The injury pain, such as, sports injury 
Chronic Lumbar Pain causes you these following diseases:
Herniated Nucleus Pulposus - this disease has severe condition and might happen suddenly, for example, lumbar pain on both sides of the back, which usually occurs while sitting or bending the body over along with muscular weakness.  
Lumbar Spinal Stenosis – this disease is similar to the Herniated Nucleus Pulposus, the difference is that at the spinal canal, there is stenosis. 
However, symptom occurs irregularly and might gradually get worse, for instance, the chronic pain on the middle of lumbar that happens when you stand or have a short walk, which might spread to the legs by numbness and muscular weakness.
Herniated Disc - chronic pain might occur after you move the body constantly for example, bending forward to pick up object, facing up or walking. 
These postures might cause pain on the back including numbness on both legs along with feeling heavy on the waist and groins, at the same time, severe condition can occur and leads you to the inability to control the excretion of urine and feces.
Cervical spondylosis - symptom usually happens to the neck, legs or arms. 
A pain on your neck might lead to chronic pain on the shoulders as well as the occiput. 
At the same time, it might happen to your arms including elbows and fingers by numbness or muscular weakness, causing problems with writing and playing music instruments. 
However, if they affect your legs that might cause imbalance walking along with failing, also, slow walking with abnormal skin tension is included.  
Therefore, in case of not being certain about your neck pain whether a cause is the spine or not. 
It is better for you to receive a proper screening, such as, MRI that provides you a clear picture of spinal structure and also supports an accuracy of diagnosis and treatment.  

