Cervical cancer is dangerous disease for women; during the first stage, symptom of the disease will not be shown and distinctive signs will appear after patients reaching its last stage. 
However, for women, if you receive early screening, then you should not worry about it as the screening helps detect some abnormalities in the uterine including female internal organs.
HPV Virus
In most cases, the cervical cancer is caused by the HPV (Human Papillomavirus) Furthermore, there are many strains of HPV. 
Two of them, which are 16 and 18, are considered as causes of male and female reproductive organs infection. 
Both are importance factors of cervical cancer The HPV viruses will be transmitted by touching through the skin. 
Thus, having sex between male and female can contribute the infection; in addition, for females they have a chance of the infection by 80 percent.
Who's at risk for cervical cancer?
People who have sex since a young age as the body has high risk of the HPV virus infection
People who have sex with multiple partners
People who have sex with a partner that has the cervical cancer
Women and men that sleep with a partner who has sexually transmitted infection diseases such as, herpes, gonorrhea and wart.
immunity diseases such as HIV
Warning signs of disease!
Generally, to have an effective result of treatment, patient should receive it during its first stage. 
Moreover, key symptoms that make the women decide to go see a doctor is when they have abnormal bleeding in their vagina. 
However, these following symptoms should also be considered before the abnormal bleeding:
Bleeding during intercourse
Bleeding after menopause
Vagina discharge leaked out with blood
Abdominal pain
Pain during sex
Abnormal vaginal discharge
Abnormal Menstruation
Fatigue, pale, weight loss and Anorexia
Swelling
Urinary Retention
Cervical Cancer Treatment
If cancer is in the first stage, surgical treatment would be a method that provides the best result, however, if it spreads to every part of the body, radiation will be applied as a treatment together with brachytherapy or by using combination of 2 methods, which are radiation and chemotherapy. 
Every procedure requires decision from specialized doctor patients and staff .
HPV-DNA Testing
Screening of cervical cancer by HPV-DNA Testing using Thin Prep Plus Cervista is a detection of cervical cancer cells together including the DNA of HPV strains that associated with the cancer moreover, it includes the screening of HPV 16 and HPV 18 as well.
This method helps identify the risk of latent symptoms and reduce its chance also, helps a doctor provide treatment in time.
Cervical Cancer Prevention
Avoid having sex with many people.
Always use a condom while having sex.
See your doctor as soon as abnormal symptoms such as abnormal vaginal discharge and bleeding after sex are noticed.
Receive a cancer screening regularly especially cervical cancer screening at least once a year