Plastic surgery is not only for the aesthetic purpose but it can also change your life.
According to the Chinese Physiognomy, these organs on your face are matter such as eyes shape, forehead, nose and mouth. 
In fact, if we have good physiognomy on the face, it can help uplift our lives for a better coming of situation in the future.
What is Good Physiognomy?
The physiognomy is a Chinese science for analyzing a beauty of the face. 
Chinese people do not look only at how beautiful you are but they think of it as a science. 
For that reason this beauty science focuses on 5 facial parts for instance, forehead, eyebrows & eyes, nose, mouth and chin shape. 
However, the most important factor of Physiognomy is that your face should overall looks clean and decent.
5 Spots of Physiognomy
Forehead
The forehead represents the intelligence, happiness and prosperity. 
A good forehead should have a proper width size included outstanding look. 
Most importantly it must be cleared with no flaw, for example, wrinkle and cavity. 
However, if the forehead size is your palm size which means that you are intelligent, being interested in learning new things, being energetic and diligent including being able to deal with all tough issues. 
On the contrary, if your forehead is wider than the palm it means that you will always be supported by people and the life will be free from pressure.
Eyebrows and Eyes
The characteristic of good eyebrows and eyes is when their tails are not pointed downward as that makes you look sad and they are both facial parts that open up for a good thing. 
Thus, the shape of both eyebrows and eyes should go along with facial beauty.
In fact, the good eyebrow starts from the beginning of the eyelid, the end of the eyebrow should be paralleled with the end of the eyes or slightly longer than the end of the eyes. 
At the same time, the eyebrow’s hair should horizontally line up from the beginning of the eye to the end of itself. 
Moreover, a good eye should be bright to express the feelings such as anger, hate or laziness. 
Bright eye conveys that you are brave and patient.
Nose
Nose can tell your habit, thoughts, mind, power, luck and treasure. 
A good nose should be long straight and does not matter whether it is big or short but the nose must contain fatty tissues. 
If your nose bridge raises up high and has a big shape, that implies to your good health condition and good money in hand. 
On the other hand, the alar nasi tells you about the luck which circle-shape of it means you are rich in money and good of luck.
Mouth
Mouth shape can tell about your habits, mind, honesty, emotion and health. 
A good shape of the mouth starts with clear lips line also the lips-corners line should slightly point up and make it look fit with the face. 
However, the observation of good size according to physiognomy can be made by drawing an invisible line from the central of black eye straight to the lips corner of both sides while looking straight to measure an optimal angle, if  the width of your lips or the end of lips corners vertically connects to the line from the black eyes means you have a big mouth implying to good of luck in contrast having distorted mouth might lead to a distorted heart.
Chin
Referring to the Physiognomy, a good shape of the chin should not be too short or narrow. 
Nevertheless, it should be in a shape of circular curve and balanced. 
The chin helps attract money. 
You would have plenty of money in long term if u have a good shape. 
Moreover, it shows your power and fearless. 
You will be able to manage your followers well as a leader. 
Finally, it tells that you will have a good love.