The symptoms of "Tonsillitis" are not severe, but, they can disturb your daily life. 
Generally, according to the symptoms, people always have high fever, cold, headache, fatigue, anorexia, dysphagia, or some may have stomach pain, vomiting and chronic tonsillitis. 
However, this chronic condition requires surgical treatment. 
Additionally, as mentioned above it causes the medical technology development, which nowadays has been highly improved. 
In fact, this article, the information of Radiofrequency tonsillectomy provided by our experienced surgeon, Dr. DR.UTHAI PARPAMONTOL from Ear, Nose and Throat Center Phyathai3 Hospital is served for you, so that you can get to know and learn more about this treatment technique.
Checklist! Symptoms that require The Surgery
The surgeon explained that the tonsillectomy is a procedure of tonsil removal, which is performed only when patients have the following symptoms:
Chronic tonsillitis (6 times a year, 5 times a year, 2 years straight, 3 times a year or 3 years consecutively).
Abscesses around the tonsil gland.
Suspected of having tonsil cancer.
Enlarged tonsil causing respiratory obstruction or snoring.
The major problems of tonsillectomy are pain and bleeding after surgery causing patients approximately by 2-5% to recover from a hospital for a long time including having dysphagia according to the surgical wound.
Radiofrequency tonsillectomy; innovative tonsil surgery
The doctor added that, this innovation applies the radio waves by the temperature of 45-85 degrees Celsius, the collateral tissues pain then can be decreased while the bleeding during surgery can also be refrained. 
This is method is utilized in many medical institutions such as Siriraj Hospital and Chulalongkorn Hospital. 
However, the advantages of the technique are as follows: 
Short duration of surgery
Low blood loss includes the incidence of postoperative bleeding
Postoperative Pain is decreased
The length of staying in the hospital is decreased (In general it takes about 1 day after surgery)
Tissue Removal and Hemostatic techniques in one by HS
One of treatment options is patient can receive harmonic scalpel (HS), Dr. Uthai described that, the Harmonic Scalpel is an equipment used for stop the bleeding and coagulate the blood vessels by the use of radiofrequency. 
A process causes vibration of 55,000 Hz. 
which helps refrain the blood from excess bleeding as well as the process can provide cutting of certain tissues in which the equipment is able to reach without damaging or widely burn. 
However, the blade or head of this tool can also give dissection, grasping including cut and coagulation. 
Moreover, there are sizes of diameters: from a small diameter up to 5mm
The Advantages of HS techniques include:
- The tissue can be cut, while the bleeding is in control. 
In fact, during the operation suture is not needed, thus, the surgical process can complete fast, and moreover, throat irritation after surgery is also reduced. 
- It takes about 20-30 minutes means that providing anesthesia does not require a long time to proceed, accordingly the cost is inexpensive. 
- There is only 0 - 5 cc of Blood Loss while other methods cause about 20-50 cc of the loss during surgery
- Less pain after surgery, especially 3-7 days after the operation.
- Short hospital stay; in general, after the surgery patients have to stay in the hospital for about 1 day after the process, but this process helps them being able to go back to work faster.
Therefore, do not let the tonsillitis become chronic problem that disturbs your life quality includes your loved ones. 
Accordingly if there is any disorder, seeking for a doctor to receive a proper consult or treatment is the best solution.
