"Because healthy pregnancy and childbirth are what every mother wants. 
At the same time having a baby during old age does not mean it is prohibited. 
For that reason, mothers still have to learn and keep on preparing for this special duty for the best resulting of pregnancy”
That statement comes from our specialized obstetrician from MATERNAL-FETAL MEDICINE, Women Center Phayathai 3 Hospital which underlines about pregnancy during 30.
When women get older what cause their pregnancies abnormal?
When older the ability to be pregnant will be decreased after the age of 32, and extremely decline after the age of 37 on account of the quantity and quality of fertilized eggs are deteriorated along with age. 
Moreover, some diseases also affect the pregnancy ability found during aging, for example, Myoma uteri, Chocolate Cyst etc. 
As a result, during pregnancy both mother and baby still at risks which require a close supervision.
Risks and Problems
Mothers having a delayed motherhood with chronic diseases such as hypertension and diabetes. 
This case, they can directly send an impact to a baby includes mothers themselves along with other complications. 
For example, miscarriage, fetal growth restriction, intrauterine fetal demise, preterm labor, preeclampsia and diabetes etc.
Genetic Disorders and Mother’s Age
The risks of physical disability in baby will not be increased, instead genetic disorders may occur for instance Down’s syndrome which causes more disabilities to the baby. 
Thus, all mothers should receive proper detection or examination in order to catch some abnormalities in fetus. 
For example, blood test for Down’s syndrome, amniocentesis, chorionic villi sampling, ultrasound examination etc.
Multiple Pregnancy and Cautions
Women with delayed motherhood have more chances of multiple pregnancy. 
Besides, the use of assisted reproductive technology like IVF is one of twin babies process, yet the multiple pregnancy has risks of many complications as well. 
For example, preterm labor, preeclampsia, diabetes, fetal growth restriction and diabetes. 
Which require closely monitor by a specialized obstetrician.
Vaginal delivery
Delayed Motherhood can have vaginal delivery depending on both mother and fetus conditions. 
According to statistics, complications are found more in the mothers. 
For that reason, Caesarean Section becomes an alternative in delayed age pregnancy comparing to younger mothers
Preparation for Delayed Motherhood
Receive Physical Examination before having a baby
Intake healthy food
Take folic acid at least 0.4 milligrams a day in 1 month before pregnancy including during the pregnancy.
Exercise regularly.
Try to lose weight if you are overweight or obese.
Stop smoking and drinking alcohol
Avoid exposure to chemicals that may affect pregnancy
After being pregnant, make a regular antenatal care also follow your doctor’s instructions.