Although headache is not a serious condition but we cannot deny that it disturbs us in everyday life. 
Some people have the pain in the eye socket, temple as well as occiput causing problems during work. 
Actually, the cause of these symptoms might come from what we usually overlook such as our behaviour. 
Accordingly these are some reasons of chronic headache that we can avoid by the following suggestion:
Stress
This is what we have to encounter everyday if you try to notice some symptoms while being stressed, you may know that heavy feeling of headache may occur in both sides of the temples including neck, shoulder as well as back. 
However, after detecting these symptoms frequently it means that you are having stress, being under pressure or depression. 
A good solution to solve such problems are doing some creative activities such as going outside your house and start doing full breathing to bring in pure air to your lungs.
Insufficient sleep
Insufficient sleep not only cause headache in the morning but also makes you feel lazy to wake up and wake up with fatigue leading to bad mood. 
Therefore, you should rest or sleep at least 6-8 hours a day.
Hot Weather
In fact, the weather can be a great stimulus for headache since the hot weather contains a change of humidity and pressure causing chemical change in the brain. 
For that reason it will activate your headache symptom afterward.
Hormone change
Hormone is considered to be the important factor that causes headaches especially during menstruation. 
The reason why most of woman have the headache during this period is because the hormone estrogen is lowered.
Chocolate Butter and Strong Taste Food
Food is also an important factor that can affect your health. 
For instant, if you have large amount of these mentioned ingredients: cheeses, chocolates, onions, salty foods or food with monosodium glutamate, those may cause yourself headache as well.
Excessive Exercise
It is true that exercise is good for health but overdoing it can make your health condition even worse and even leads you to have a headache. 
According to the exercise, it empowers blood flow to your brain and neck. 
For that reason, when you overdo it then headache will appear due to swelling of the arteries. 
Therefore, working out with decent hours can prevent you from the symptom as well as a stress.
Using computer for long time
Office workers mostly require staying in front of the computer for long time without taking a break. 
The fact is that patients often have headache and eye socket pain which mostly manifest during the afternoon or after work since the eyes are used all day. 
Moreover, certain of them may feel dizzy, or have nausea. 
Accordingly, we recommend you to rest your eyes every 20-30 minutes and do not forget to change your posture to relax the body.
Staring at Phone Screen
Each day, we have to admit that we all stare at mobile screen for hours causing the eyes blepharospasm which eventually leads to headache or pain in eye socket. 
Apart from that, it also affects the neck muscle considered as one of the causes for having the headache. 
Therefore, we should rest the eyes by winking them more often or looking at something around such as trees in every 10-15 minutes.
As earlier stated, headache occurs to everyone. 
Sometimes the pain can be harmless during a short time but sometime, when there are some disorders overlooked by us meaning that they might be bad signs of many dangerous diseases.

