Do not be panic if you are one who is going to have gall bladder operation as we have a good way recommended from an expert for you, accordingly just follow these suggestions then all fears will be gone. 
For more understanding the suggestions are divided into 3 sessions as follows:
Session 1: Before Surgery
You are not allowed to have water and food at least 6-8 hours before the surgery including alcohol and smoking for at least 48 hours. 
If the patient has a disease that requires regular medication then take the medicine to a hospital as well. 
Do not forget to inform the doctor and nurse before a process so that your doctor can decide that you can take that drug or stop using it. 
Moreover, resting or sleeping is also a must. 
The doctor added that patients must have a sleep at least 6-8 hours before an operation day in order to make sure they clean up their body properly. 
However, for those with nail polishing or make-up all should be removed while patents or guidance are required to come with patients aged under 20.
Session 2: After surgery
After receiving surgery, surgical wound about 3-4 spots may appear on the abdomen area and this is a normal effect as open surgery definitely causes you larger size of scars than this method. 
Some patients need to avoid having food or water after the process while some can have them right after the process is done depending on individual condition. 
However, posture that is required in them is the head should be placed in high position for a while to reduce tension from the wound. 
After feeling better then they can do some light exercising in bed at the same time while moving the body use the hands to support and carefully protect the wound to lower muscle tension and protect it from being attacked.
Session 3: Recovering at home
During the first period after surgery, the doctor always advises patients to avoid having high-fat foods also having enough resting and exercise decently. 
For those who worry about work can be able to return back within 1 week which requires a following of instruction provided by doctor strictly. 
Moreover, about hygiene or cleanliness of the wound should be provided by standard accredited clinic or hospital to prevent an infection as it can transfer to worse condition. 
On the other hand, the wound covered by waterproof plaster allows patients to have a shower as usual without being cleaned unless there is bleeding. 
Furthermore, patients must go see a doctor every appointment punctually.
Theses are what you have to prepare and take care of yourself before and after the surgery which is simple basing on responsibility from both you as patient and a family for example the wounds are treated or how you behave during the remedy so that all results can come out with an effective improvement .