Normally, the diagnosis of "Chronic gastroesophageal reflux " always utilizes endoscopic inspection. 
However, the endoscopy may not be able to detect some abnormalities in certain cases. 
Accordingly, Manometry can be another alternative for intensive chronic gastroesophageal reflux screening.
Intensive "Gastroesophageal reflux” screening...by advanced modern tools
The endoscopic examination sometimes cannot find the cause of symptoms. 
Doctors then will provide 24 hours pH monitoring to the esophagus in order to measure and examine the level of reflux. 
However, this method is approved under a standard. 
In addition, during a procedure doctor will insert a diagnostic tool or small tube into the nose while the pH monitoring is also be monitored. 
Patients need to take the monitoring machine with themselves for 24 hours to check the reflux level, also it helps prevent them in case if some severe symptoms occur so that they can be sent to a surgery in time. 
The PH monitoring requires the use of a gastric compressor or manometry to find the location of the esophageal sphincter and to be placed in the most precise position including to evaluate the compression of the esophagus as well.
Facts about Manometry
Patients must stop drinking water and taking medication that interferes with the compression of the esophagus before nasogastric intubation.
A doctor will provide anesthesia before the intubation. 
It only takes a few minutes when the patients give well cooperation.
When a small tube is inserted to the stomach, it can be see from a display during a procedure.
According to a procedure, when the end part of the tube reaches inside the stomach, the doctor then will order patients to swallow water 10 times to see how the esophagus and sphincter process their compressions. 
Each swallowing must have enough quality in order to observe the organ function clearly.
Tube intubation for Manometry has no side effects and complications. 
There may be a slight irritation of the nose such as, bleeding or mucus but not in severe condition like organs penetration. 
The treatment takes about 45 minutes if the patient cooperates with the doctor well.
Phyathai 2 Hospital we are ready to treat all patients with Gastroesophageal Reflux Screening diseases. 
The precise diagnoses as well as various treatment options are served by a team of medical personnel including advanced modern medical technology. 
Accordingly, let us help you stop the reflux .
before it becomes your chronic problem.

 