Short Stature in Young Children
Pediatric at Phyathi2 Hospital Dr. Nuanphong Rienmanee said factors affecting the growth of children based on gene.
Today there are 10 percent of many parents who have come to receive consulting. 60 percent found having a problem transferred by older generation.
Apart from that, some disorders caused by hormones which could be a major factor growth hormone deficiency or thyroid for example.
These two conditions require treatment from experienced doctor that helps recover a condition back to normal.
How do you know if a child is shorter than standard?
Basically, girls are taller than boys by the age of 10-11 and will stop by the age of 16.
Mostly a boy physical body would be developed longer or slower than girls.
However, by the age of 12-15 the boy will still keep growing until 18 some could be 20. 
The average height of Thai men is 160-180 cm.
while women is 150-170 cm.
Children suspected of having abnormal growth should be diagnosed with early diagnosis as some conditions can be treated in time and it is better to be treated since a young age.
According to older age it result in effective outcome.
What is Growth Hormone?
Growth hormone is a type of hormone produced by the pituitary gland, small glands located at the center of the brain.
It serves the growth to children followed by age.
However, it also affects the process of sugar production in the blood.
If there are some disorders to the pituitary gland, the hormone then will be decreased causing delayed physical development in your children.
Growth Hormone Abnormalities Detection
To detect growth hormone level apart from phlebotomy, medicine taking or injection will be utilized to stimulate the growth hormone.
Thus, patients need to fast before receiving both treatment.
Examination of Disorders caused by Thyroid Hormone Deficiency
Proving phlebotomy to detect the level of hormone in case finding the disorders hormone supplement then will be given through their mouth.
Treatment for Patients with Genetic Disorders
Even this is evitable however there are solutions to support your children growth like good eating behaviour, exercise and sleep.
The main food that should not miss is protein from meat that stimulates the natural hormone in the body.
In addition, the body requires adequate energy and calories from carbohydrates as well as vitamins and minerals such as calcium.
They help build strong bone mass and zinc that generate growth hormone which contribute the growth hormone function.
Treatment for Patients with growth Hormone Deficiency by Hormone Injection into The Skin
Patients who respond well to the treatment of hormone injections lacking of the considered as a cause.
However, the more deficiency the more effective results.
Therefore every patient require the receiving of screening before receiving the treatment procedure.
Each child has different shapes and stature.
Some might look small but still categorized as normal.
If parents want children to grow up fast supporting them by serving five groups of foods along with encouraging of exercise and letting them take a full rest or sleep as growth hormone produced and leaked from pituitary gland while exercising as well as during their sleep.