When there is spinal pain, it means you probably face spinal problems. 
What you should do first is to change some behaviors that lead you to this difficulty, such as, sitting, walking as well as sleeping. 
Proper postures or motion are optimal changes for you. 
They relieve and prevent the spine from distortion include protect the body from compression caused by pressure. 
Moreover, what you cannot overlook is “exercise” whereas it can help strengthen your back muscle well.
What is Isometric Exercise?
It is a muscle flexing exercise, which suits for those having chronic back pain. 
The flexing of the muscles is done by contraction at any spot of the body, you have to hold it awhile within a short period. 
During that time, tension from that body part will go against another, but motionless action, for example, making fist of one hand go against walls or squeezing objects intensively or pulling a chair in which you sit, this is like the body fight that goes against itself.
Strengthen the body by sitting
According to this type of workout, it does not require motion, so that patients can do it easily, for example, pushing against walls, squeezing objects, fisting or lifting a chair. 
You can do it every day, 5-10 seconds in each time, however, do not hold your breath while practicing it. 
In fact, doing this daily helps strengthen every part of the body basing on postures, for instance, palm goes against the face, which sends a flexing to your neck directly.  
Patients during rehabilitation can also do some Isometric Exercises
The Isometric Exercise fits in with people having busy schedules or a small room to workout. 
It only requires short time, and you also can do it everywhere. 
Moreover, the athletes that are treated during the rehabilitation to recover from injury and those who only can move some part of their bodies as well as suffering from neck pain can also do the workout. 
On the contrary, patients with heart diseases and hypertension are not suggested to do the exercise, whereas the contraction from the flexing can make the heart function intensively with hypertension, for that case might lead them in danger.