Many people perceive that hemorrhoids is the only one disease causing the bleeding to defecation as people think this may not lead them to the colonoscopy. 
However, do people actually know that there are many diseases that also could be the cause of the bleeding as well? For example, tumors in the colon, vessels in the colon, polyp in the colon, colitis and cancer. 
Therefore, to find the reason why we require the colonoscopy, all answers are below
How to deal with the bleeding ?
Give information to the doctor thoroughly and do not be embarrassed when you must receive anal screening as both processes are very vital.
Do not be depressed if you have anal bleeding or excretory disorders. 
Please consult the doctor immediately.
It is very helpful to patients if they meet the doctor on the same day when the bleeding occurs.
Get the Colonoscopy... to avoid the DANGER
Both doctor and patients have to looking for the real cause of abnormality. 
Once it is found, the detection is actually needed because…
To find the real cause of blood defecation if there is nothing other than the hemorrhoids such as colorectal tumor or cancer as well as the cause is still unknown. 
This means additional screening is required due to source of the disease may locate in somewhere deeper as the fingers or tool are unable to reach.
To plan for the treatment accurately and promptly If the bleeding comes from hemorrhoids, the disease will be treated appropriately based on each stage. 
On the other hand, if the blood comes from the tumor, the doctor then will remove the tumor and analyze what kind of tumor patient is having in order to plan for further treatment.
To stop the bleeding; in case of unstoppable bleeding If the blood comes from the hemorrhoids and it does not stop.
The doctor then may either have to provide patients injection or surgery. 
However, If the bleeding is derived from other causes, the doctor then will give you endoscopy to detect the cause promptly and to find the most suitable method for patients which require both experienced doctor and advanced equipment.
What we should know to ensure that the bleeding is not cancer is whenever the abnormalities are found, we must immediately receive proper screening by the doctor.