After the incidence of dust covering all over Bangkok, many people are concerned about the physical effect. 
Preventing yourself from air pollution is not as hard as you think. 
This is the suggestion from our specialist so that you can be able to handle this “dust in the city” situation better!
Where does the smoke or dust come from? / What are they? How do they affect our body?
In general, the pollution in Bangkok Metropolitan Region mostly comes from vehicles; consequently, a large number of cars have been increasing every day. 
Regarding a recent situation, pollution causes weather in the region change since the wind stop ventilating as usual. 
For that reason, the dust and smoke start to accumulate in the air little by little.
How is it harmful to our body or lungs?
The pollution can harm the body bases on these following factors:
When the pollution has been accumulated in large amount.
When the accumulating considered extremely long: recently, this incidence has been occurring in Bangkok periodically; even it happens in short period, this situation can affect certain groups of people such as those who have allergy or asthma together with several symptoms such as coughing from inhaling the pollution. 
Moreover, those with congenital diseases like heart disease, emphysema, or asthma, are also affected by a circumstance. 
Regarding aforementioned symptoms, all is stimulated by allergens called polluted smoke and dust. 
Both are reasons of exhausted feeling. 
Furthermore, the allergens can contribute severe condition of the existing diseases as well.
What is the proper prevention? / How to handle the pollution?
For prevention, in order to solve a problem apart from knowing the source of the exhaust (pollution), self-prevention is also important. 
During the situation, you should avoid being in the area where the pollution is, for instance, traffic. 
You should also stop going outside for exercising around the area as well as having an action or activities that make you inhale the smoke.
Furthermore, wearing a mask can filter large amount of the dust, however, small Air-Borne would still enter into the lungs.
Does wearing a mask help prevent us from pollution well?
There are many types of medical face masks such as a full-face mask that refrains the air from passing through nose directly, considered better than every type. 
However, it has disadvantage since it could make you feel tired while doing daily activities. 
However, a common medical face mask people often use is either made of fabric or paper, which is available everywhere for purchasing.
Furthermore, the correct way of wearing the mask is to make sure it covers the top and the bottom area of your face because when you inhale, the air would be able to pass through a filter before getting into the nose. 
However, if it enters aside including from the back and above your nose level, meaning the filter may not prevent the air from entering well. 
For that reason, you must optimize the mask firmly while wearing it to ensure it does not pass through some other areas but, facial mask filter only.
How to take care of yourself for those with chronic disease
For those with heart disease, emphysema, asthma, or allergy, there is possibility of improving more severity in existing disease’s symptoms. 
Thus, it is necessary to people with such conditions to avoid being exposed by the smoke and dust.
However, if you really have to go outside, please spend your time less and stop an action that requires high energy from the body such as, exercise because while you are breathing, it can bring dust or pollution into your body. 
In addition, following updated news regarding the pollution constantly is recommended as it gives more information about places that should not be visited including the areas where the pollutions has more impurity increased.
Signs from inhaling so much pollution that require you check-up by a doctor
Those exposed by the pollution especially people with allergy, often have common symptoms appear such as coughing.
However, it disappears when you escape from an area. 
Beside, for patients with heart disease, asthma and Pulmonary Emphysema symptoms such as heavy breathing could still continue affecting after resting or leaving the area, this sign we recommend you to go see a doctor immediately.
If this case happens again in the future and takes a longer period of time, what will be the effect to us?
In order for this case to affect the health, the smoke dust must be at a high level for a long time, days, or weeks, which can cause a greater number of patients and the use of more medication for coughing.
Doctor’s suggestions when facing pollution in the air 
Everyone should understand that we face this problem periodically, but not often in the circumstance that the air is not ventilated.
Do not be over panic; this is a normal thing that can happen to us.
For people who have no chronic diseases may not have special concern in this case.
People that should have more caution than others are those with allergies, asthma, ischemic heart disease, emphysema, and children. 
They need to stay away from the pollution areas such as going home and avoid staying around the area or staying in a building could also make them save. 
However, if there are some abnormal symptoms appear after exposed by the smoke for a while, please consult a doctor immediately.
How to observe the abnormal symptoms that require you to see a doctor? 
If you cough after leaving an area and then it gradually decreases within 24 hours,that should not be a problem. 
On the other hand, if the symptoms still go on, seeing a doctor is recommended. 
Moreover, asthma patients who already use inhale spray but heavy inhaling seems to not be improved, seeing a doctor is a must at the same time for those with heart disease that impacted by a situation with chest pain and heavy breathing. 
However, after taking medicine, symptoms are still not relieved, this case, patients are required to reach a doctor before 24 hours immediately.