When the children choke up strange object in to the respiratory tract. 
They will start coughing, breathing heavily. 
The obstruction of breathing based on size and location of the object.
Total obstruction of the respiratory tract often found being stuck by large foreign objects. 
The obstruction occurs at the larynx and trachea. 
Children will have lips turning green-pale and cough without sound. 
Such a condition is considered as dangerous sign requiring immediate help as that can lead patients to death.
Partial obstruction of the respiratory tract. 
The children still speak with a voice as well as coughing.
How do You Save The Children?
If the child has Total obstruction of the respiratory tract parents should rush to contact for emergency assistance or an ambulance call for timely help.
If a child is younger than 1 year-old, you need to make the body of a child flip down, lay their whole body on your arms and set the head in lower position compared to your body , then place your both hands around the head areas to move their body forward gently put the arms on the thigh areas using base of the hand tapping on the back blow 5 times. 
Keep doing it until the object is out from the mouth.
For children aged older than 1 year-old, make the body of that child lean forward slightly.
Parents need to come help him from the back inserting both arms. 
Make a fist then put it on the Xiphoid process put another hand on the fist then compress it up keep doing until the objects are out. 
This process called Heimlich maneuver. 
During the process be sure not to hurt ribcage as that impacts on other inner organs
In case of unconsciousness you can help them by doing chest compression and breath through the lips of patient.
Partial obstruction of the respiratory tract. 
For this case patients should be taken to a hospital. 
Do not try to expose foreign matter by fingers. As this may cause more obstructed position.
Protection
Taking care of the children suffering from choking require accurate first-aid thus, protection is very important especially safe environment for example the type and size of toy that suit your child's age or type and size of food suitable for their age. 
Do not feed while they are playing to prevent aspiration oral feed.