Have you ever had chronic headache ? It constantly squeezes your head which sometime you have to take a medicine and rest immediately. 
That might not be a right solution. 
However, the fact is that, this pain could be a sign of some disorders. 
To know either having abnormal symptoms or not just by observing yourself according to these following information.
The headache usually appears around your head or upper part of the neck caused by inflammation of the tissue or skull structure of the brain leading to the mentioned pain. 
It may come from the nerves inside your skin or on your face and mouth as well as neck and shoulder muscles including blood vessel which supplies the brain.
What “headache” can tell?
In general, each type of headache is characterized by different pains, such as migraine. 
This pain occurs to either on one or both sides of your head. 
The headaches is derived from tensed muscles giving you to feel tension around the forehead and temple. 
It spreads to overall areas of your head while cluster pain usually appears in eye socket. 
However, severity of the cluster headache bases on cause, type and location for example face, skull or total area of your head.
Tension type headache
Tension type headache; it is the most common headache in those with stress, fatigue and overwork. 
The pain affects by the feeling of being tight around the neck or both sides of your head. 
As a result its severity level might go from mild to moderate which include an area of head muscle, neck as well as shoulder. 
In addition, this type of headache does not impact your routine activity including not causing you nausea.
Migraine headache
It is a common headache often be misunderstood by uncertain result of diagnosis. 
Pain always impacts on working woman. 
The level of severity is from moderate to severe which can get worse on account of some environmental factors for instance light, sound, or scent. 
However, a few patients may suffer from nausea. 
In addition, the migraine headache symptoms could continue expressing more than 4 hours while some people take 3 days for the symptom to relieve.
Cluster headache
Even it is rarely found but when symptom is not being treated properly that can cause you regular torture in daily life. 
Nevertheless, this type of pain usually occurs in men and may lead a person to severe pain as well as feeling of being restless. 
Moreover, the pain starts from 15 minutes to 3 hours approximately while location of the pain could be around your eye socket and temple. 
In addition, patients may also suffer from symptoms of parasympathetic which are conjunctivitis, tears, runny nose and sweating on the face where the pain is located.
Chronic daily headache
This type of headache often goes more than 15 days in one month or 3 months. 
Patient may have a tension headache or migraine but symptoms may go longer and become chronic afterward. 
However, the fact is that this group of patients may have “medication overuse headache” as a cause of this chronic pain including a consequence from wrong diagnosis, using unprescribed medicine and frequent use of painkiller which then leads to more severity of chronic pain. 
Apart from that, there are many more factors that can be a trigger of the symptom for example sinusitis, coronary arterial disease, cerebral hemorrhage, or cancer. 
Additionally, the diagnosis must require many information such as sickness record, physical examination and MRI to distinguish types of this disease and prevent the patients from worse condition.
No matter what kind of headache you have, what you should know is that when there are some disorders causing you pain for more than 2 weeks please immediately consult a doctor to receive an accurate advice as well as treatment because that could be signs from complication of diseases.

