Sometimes, we might wonder about grandma’s bowlegs and cracking sound of grandpa walk as something that catches our attentions like whether a cause is joint diseases, known as “Osteoarthritis” or not. 
In fact, today we have all answers provided below for you, by a list of Osteoarthritis symptoms we would like you to observe yourself as well as be able to receive a screening in time.     
A sound of the joint while moving.
Actually, the crack sound might come from various causes, for example, cartilage injury by accident or by improper workout postures. 
Both guide you to know that when there is a friction of the Cartilage, according to rough skin of the joint and the hard using of the knee joint, they can cause you the injury, which might be a sign of having Osteoarthritis whereas patients with a disease usually diagnose joint together with the mentioned symptoms.
Abnormal bowlegs and walking difficulty
In this group, according to the bow, it causes the patients imbalanced knees and unstable walking as the length of both legs. 
However, during a long walk, chronic pain might occur from the inside of both knees and locates at a specific spot. 
It can start from one side of the knee, then spread to another side. 
Running or being hit can cause more pain to them, in addition, mostly the bowlegs are connected by one to another as mentioned information, which makes people decide to weigh their walking more on a good leg and eventually both become bowlegs with severe soreness and at the same time create patients more difficulties for their walks.
Stiff Knees Joint Symptom 
The stiff causes you inability to stretch, this symptom happens due to the tense and stiff inside the joint. 
The unequal joint skins can cause extra joint bones protrusion, while broken pieces of the cartilage will obstruct joint movement, and lastly, nearby muscles will start to contract. 
In fact, in first stages you might not feel such symptoms until they create worse condition and result in the stiff knee joint.
Feel the pain after pressing  
Another sign that might happen is the pain when you start to press on the knee joint, for example, in case of joint inflammation, you will find the pain after pressing during a walk or while the body is moving. 
At the same time, pressing on swollen or enlarged joints which are caused by water retention also express the pain, however, in some cases might have thicker joint tissues which gives you feeling of touching fluffy spongy.