Gastro-Esophageal Reflux Disease; GERD is a disease which can be diagnosed and treated based on symptoms. 
Additional examination will be performed in case of warning signs or the symptom going against the medicines; Proton pump inhibitors. 
According to what mentioned, in this article we have some information and tips of prevention provided by Gastroenterologist, DR.SUPPHAMAT CHIRNAKSORN for you as some symptoms may lead you to serious diseases. 
Symptoms of GERD: Not only Heartburn or Pyrosis
Patients who come to see a doctor mostly have these symptoms. 
However, there are divided into two groups: The first group is occurred at the area of the esophagus, for example, pyrosis, sour burps or chest pain. 
According to the group, heart screening is required before considered every mentioned sign as GERD indication. 
On the other hand, another group has all symptoms occur outside the esophagus on account of gastric acid reflux at the cervical part. 
It causes respiratory obstruction. 
Patients may have chronic cough, asthma, hoarseness including, tooth decay, bad breath, chronic sore throat, chronic sinusitis and chronic inflammatory eardrum.
Dangerous Signs of GERD
Severe dysphagia, weight loss by unknown-causes, constant vomiting and pallor are considered as dangerous signs of GERD. 
Patients need to receive or undergo further examinations.
“Can GERD become "Cancer"?
The chance of complications is only 10-15%. 
Patients commonly have esophageal inflammation, esophageal- ulcer and achalazia. 
When these symptoms go last meaning that a change in the cells of the esophagus may occur, and eventually lead the cells to cancer. 
In Asian people, the severe complication or esophageal cancer is found less than 1%, therefore, most of chronic symptoms can only cause you feeling uncomfortable daily with no serious conditions.
"Behavioral Modification"; First alternative of your treatment
Primarily, doctors always suggest all patients to have their behavioral modifications, especially those who love eating too much food or having food with strong tastes, sleeping after having a meal and being overweight. 
As mentioned, they are seriously required to have the modification unless whose symptoms cannot be improved, which a medication will be provided including additional examination.
When changing behavior not working….further inspections may require
For further testing, the first thing to do is having endoscopic procedure to recheck a condition as well as to search for any complication. 
Those whose causes are detected, doctors then will provide a treatment right after a resulting, while who have no abnormalities after screening will be suspected of having abnormal squeezing or digesting from the esophagus or they may have been suffered from other diseases. 
Moreover, in that case, patients will have to receive more screening by manometry including 24 hour-detection or GERD screening for 24 hours.
 