8 Essential Hormones that You have to Handle
Our body consists of hormones produced to function and associate with other organs so that its system can process properly.
Therefore, it is essential for us to be mindful about some abnormalities occur within the body.
Hormones of Happiness
Endorphin
Endorphin is a hormone secreted from the brain, known as 'Happiness Hormone', compares as natural morphine that the body releases when a person is happy.
It is ejaculated to stimulate positive feelings.
However, when the person is in stress or depression , the hormone then will be decreased regarding negative circumstances.
How to Increase The Hormone Levels
Do what your heart says
Excercise more than 20 minuites to stimulate the Endophine
Do medication
Reach the climax in the middle of romantic intercourse
Dopamine
Dopamine is considered as affectionate hormone released from the cells and brain.
This hormone associates with different part of nerve system such as brain function, body motion, memory and learning. 
If it is in underrate level our feeling can be negative with stress and depression.
As a result, symptoms categorized as mental illness, regarding recent development of mental medication, the Dopamine is improved to be used in remedy.
n addition, in elderly populations who have low dopamine found having Alzheimer’s disease that is because the nerves and muscular system are not correlated the motion, therefore, is unable to maintain its right direction due to intensive shaking.
How To Increase Hormone Levels
Exercise
Have foods rich in Amino and protein as the dopamine synthesized by the amino acid called Tyrosin deriving from meats, egg, bean, and milk including others.
Serotonin
Serotonin is anti-stress chemical substance leaked from the brain and gastrointestinal tract that affects muscular system, emotion, behavior and sleep.
If its level is extremely low it can lead to bad moods, insomnia, loss of concentration, headache, and migraine and eventually cause depression.
Tips for increasing the Serotonin
Exercise
Have the foods that consist of high protein where Tryptophan is produced which is one of amino acids that secrete the Serotonin.
Stress Hormone
Cortisol
The Cortisol is secreted from the adrenal gland, considered as steroid that the body can produce. The cortisol is listed in a group of Stress Hormone.
When there is stress, negative situation or sickness, This hormone will stimulate the body to response to inflammation, pain, infection including activating the liver to produce more sugar.
The body therefore, needs more energy than usual, people may gain weight.
Apart from that, it also helps control the level of water and minerals in the body to maintain the body pressure so that it can function normally.
How To Increase The Cortisol
Have enough rest, as the hormone will increased in the morning and decreased at noon. 
If the sleep time is ordered properly , its function will adjust normally.
On the other hand, for those not having proper sleep , the secretion of the cortisol will not be able to boost energy within the body causing insomnia to that person.
Adrenaline
The Adrenaline or Epinephrine produced from the adrenal gland.
It is the hormone that associated with anger and and self-defense.
The body will responds to boost the body for energy consumption muscle and cardiac system to fully function, the heartbeat then raise faster together with blood pressure. 
Surprisingly, this hormone released when we are in rush, excited, scared such as in conflagration, some people can lift up heavy stuff and run fast to get things out of a house.
However, it is leaked exceedly that could be sign of tumor in the adrenal gland.
Sex Hormones
Testosterone
estosterone is male sex hormone secreted from the testicle, it requires cholesterol for synthesizing meaning our body must contains fat that can turn into sex hormone.
The hormone will transform or change physical structure starts from younger age to older.
Muscles will be enlarged, hairs will grow longer in different areas of the body as well as cracked voice and a change of genital.
If the body has low testosterone, the body then will not be able to develop properly causing delay of body development such as sexual dysfunction and Atrophied legs.
How To Increase Hormone Level
Have enough exercise
Have food consists of sex hormone contributor such as Zinc in oyster
Estrogen
Estrogen is female sex hormone produced by the ovary.
It develops the body of women such as breast, hip and skin including menstruation, egg producing, ovulation and muscular system.
If its level decreased especially in those having menopause between age of 45 to 50 as there is a risk of osteoarthritis regarding bone density.
How To Increase Hormone Levels
Have foods that contain high estrogen, such as coconut water, soybean milk, but still cannot take it to replace the hormone completely.
Progesterone
The Progesterone is the hormone that comes with pregnancy, mostly increases during menstruation where eggs are matured enough to be fertilized with semen.
The Progesterone can be secreted by the ovary and the adrenal glands.
This hormone stimulates the endometrium during the period to let embryo embedded in the uterus.
On the contrary if it is decreased, instead of having the pregnancy, the menstruation then released in every month.
The hormones mentioned above are natural substances that the body can synthesize by itself.
We can stimulate them and maintain its balance by adjusting some behaviors, such as having enough sleep or five groups food.