Ovarian cancer is mostly found as the top of female genital disease. 
it is classified as a latent danger whereas the disease has the highest risk of death. 
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), in 2008, cancer was the leading cause of death by 13% worldwide. 
In Thailand, the ovarian cancer is the sixth disease of Gynecologist cancers. 
The incidence of it is about 6.8 people over 100,000 a year. 
However, in this article the Gynecologist specializing in Gynecologic cancer, at Phyathai Sriracha Hospital DR.KORAPIN RUDTANASUDJATUM, has provided us a key information as follows 
Cause and Severity of “Ovarian Cancer”?
Ovarian cancer is caused by cell growth disorder. 
The abnormal cells locate next to the ovary. 
At the same time when the body is unable to handle, then the cells would eventually pile up themselves as a lump, which later are spreaded to other organs. 
Currently, the cancer has become the second disease of female genital cancer, which is interior to cervical cancer. 
However, the disease is mostly found in patients aged of 40-60. 
Young children and adolescents are also at risk. 
In addition, the causes of ovarian cancer is still unknown, for that reason, these are some risk factors of the disease:
Infertility
Fast menstruation or delayed menopause.
Latent symptoms of ovarian cancer and differences of each stage
Ovarian cancer has four stages. 
The symptoms of ovarian cancer include distension, abdominal pain, enlarged stomach observed by touching on the lower abdomen. 
Moreover, other symptoms might happen, for example, weight loss, anorexia, excess water in the stomach, frequent urination, and obstructed defecation deriving from the lump compression on the bladder and the bowel. 
In fact, some patients might not experience these symptoms, instead the disease might be caught after annual physical examination. 
Finally , in the last stage means cancer is already spread to other organs. 
Abnormal organ function might be shown, such as, breathing difficulty by the lungs, and if it is spread to the liver, that could result in severe liver enlargement or function value abnormality. 
Besides, the diagnosis in any stage depends on the patient's symptoms. 
In fact, physical additional examination like blood tests, X-rays or Computer X-rays along with surgery, all can be used to state each stage of the cancer clearly. 
They can affect patients by guiding the way of further treatment.
How the ovarian cancer is treated?
Ovarian cancer treatment is based on types of cancer, stage, age of patient and demand for having a child.
Accordingly, the main focus of the treatment is surgery: the uterus and ovaries removal, also lymph node cut on the abdominal cavity. 
However, for young patients having the first stage of cancer, to provide ovary removal on one side and still keep the another normal uterus and ovary on the opposite side is one of solutions. 
In addition, there are additional treatment such as Chemotherapy in case of having indication. 
Lastly, for radiation, this method is rarely used as the treatment of ovarian cancer nowadays. 
The Prevention of Ovarian Cancer. 
How worth it is?
The use of contraceptives more than five years can reduce the risk of ovarian cancer by 50%, while having one child can also reduce the risk by 60%. 
However, for those of which a family member has ovarian cancer, breast cancer, gastric cancer, or cervical cancer should consult a doctor to assess the risk of ovarian cancer and for the benefit of further treatment guidelines. 
