SCB Home Builder Loan
Whether the house is small or big, SCB can help turn your dream into reality.
Apply Online
Share
Product Detail
Qualification and Document Required
Contact Us
SCB Home Builder ...
Apply Online
Product Detail
Build your dream house with our home construction loan, the SCB Home Builder Loan. 
We offer a bonus credit limit of up to 30% to fund interior decoration and furnishings (according to conditions of the SCB Home Builder Plus program). 
Take advantage of our special fixed or variable interest rate. 
You can opt for low monthly installments under a long loan period of up to 30 years.
Credit line
Credit line
Receive a credit limit up to 130% of the appraisal value of land and buildings to make your dream house comes true. 
1. Receive a credit limit up to 100% of the construction wage (in case of fully owned land) 
2. Maximum credit line does not exceed 90% of the appraisal value of the land and building. 
3. Receive additional credit line up to 30% to fund interior decoration and furnishings according to SCB home builder plus program.
Interest rates 
Interest rates
As announced by the bank.
Rates and Fees
Interest Rate for Lending Effective Date: 16.01.2019 Announcement Date: 15.01.2019
Land and House Design Appraisal Fees
Approximately 4,868.50 baht (for land <1 rai). 
Expense may vary as announced by the bank.
Loan Consultation Service Fee
Waived.
Stamp Duty
0.05% of loan limit, but not more than 10,000 baht.
Mortgage Fee
1% of credit limit
Fire Insurance Premium
As charged by insurance company.
Qualification and Document Required
Qualification
Thai nationality
Has never had a non-performing loan at any financial institution
Age at least 20 years old, not more than 65.
Document Required
Identity Verification
Copy of identity document: personal I.D. card, passport, government employee I.D. card or state enterprise employee I.D. card
Copy of house registration
Copy of marriage certificate (if applicable)
Copy of certificate of name change (if applicable)
Collateral Document
Copy of ownership document (copy of title deed, front and back) in case of fully owned land
Building construction permit. 
(The applicant for construction permit must be the same person who is holding the land title.)
Approved construction blue print and material list (BOQ)
Copy of construction contact
Land sale and purchase agreement.
Income Document
Salaried employee
Salary confirmation and pay slips
Bank statements for past six months
Business owner
Bank statements for past six months (personal account and business account)
Four or five photos of the business premises and map showing location
Copy of trade registration and company registration, including list of shareholders
Tax submission documents for past year, showing income and expenditures as well as receipts for purchase and sale of goods
Self-employed
Bank statements for past six months
Professional license (doctor, engineer, lawyer architect)