The purposes of this study were to determine problems and needs of teachers in measuring and evaluating learning objectives prescribed in student report cards (P.02) concerning Extra Learning Experience (English) in Prathom 5 and 6 of primary schools under the Office of Rayong Provincial Primary Education, and to compare the problems and needs of teachers by considering three variables: English qualification and English inservice education, English teaching experiences, and teaching responsibilities. 
The population of 290 Prathom 5 and 6 teachers were from schools under the Office of Rayong Provincial Primary Education. 
A 147-item, rating-scale questionnaire describing problems and needs in measuring and evaluating learning objectives in three areas: 
the measuring instruments, the knowledge and understanding, and the performance, was employed distributed for data collecting. 
The arithmetic mean, the standard deviation, and the level of problems and needs were used for analysis of the data. 
The findings were as follows: 
1. According to the problems of teachers in measuring and evaluating learning objectives, the teachers indicated them in three areas at a moderate level. 
The importance of each area was presented in the following high-to-low order: 
the performance, the measuring instruments and the knowledge and understanding. 
2. The comparison of the problems of teachers in measuring and evaluating learning objectives was considered by the three variables: 
English qualification and English inservice education, English teaching experiences, and teaching responsibilities.
2.1 There were no differences in the three areas of problems in measuring and evaluating learning objectives as perceived by teachers English qualification and English inservice education.
2.2 When considering the teachers English teaching experiences, there were no differences in the three areas of the problems.
2.3 There were no differences in the three areas of the problems as perceived by teachers teaching responsibilities. 
3. Teachers stated the needs in measuring and evaluating learning objectives in all three areas at a high level. 
The importance of the needs was rated at the following order: 
the measuring instruments, the performance, and the knowledge and understanding. 
4. The comparison of the needs in measuring and evaluating learning objectives was considered by the three variables.
4.1 Teachers with different English qualification and English inservice education stated no difference on the three areas of the needs.
4.2 There were no differences in the needs as perceived by teachers English Teaching experiences.
4.3 When considering the teachers teaching responsibilities, there were also no differences in the needs of these three areas.
