Background: In the age of modern communication, wide exchange of knowledges and technologies, "English" has completely become the universal language. 
Thailand, as a developing country, English has been taught in schools for many years in order for Thais to be able to learn more knowledges and technologies from other countries. 
However, there are many problems in English teaching in both elementary and secondary schools. 
English teaching in elementary schools is concerned with laying solid foundation for further study and developing healthy attitude toward the subject as well. 
Success or failure of children depends mostly upon teaching-behaviors of the teachers--what and how the teachers do in the classroom. 
The researcher believes that to improve English - teaching in elementary schools we ought to study clearly the teaching-behaviors of the teachers. 
According to the findings of some previous studies, the total acadamic achievements, including English, of pupils in schools under the municipalities were found higher than those of pupils in schools under the Office of National Primary Education Commission. 
However, a study on learning achievement of English of pupils in Amphur Muang Nakhonphanom showed contradictory results. 
The researcher was thus interested in finding out the English - teaching behaviors of teachers in schools both unde the office of Amnhur Muang Nakhonphanom Primary education and under the Muang Nakhonphanom Municipality. 
The findings of the study should be helpful to the improvement of the teaching of the English language. 
~uPurposes of the study~u : 
1. To study all 5 phases of English - teaching behaviors of the teachers both under the office of Amphur Muang Nakhonphanom Primary Education and under the Muang Nakhonphanom Municipality. 
The English - teaching behaviors are composed of:
1.1 Teaching preparation
1.2 Teaching and learning activities
1.3 Using of teaching aids
1.4 Classroom control and classroom atmosphere
1.5 Measuring and evaluating activities 
2. To compare the English - teaching behaviors between the two groups of teachers 
~uHypothesis of the study~u: 
1. Teachers under the different Offices will differ in teaching preparation. 
2. Teachers under the different Offices will differ in teaching and learning activities. 
3. Teachers under the different Offices will differ in using of teaching aids. 
4. Teachers under the different Offices will differ in classroom control and classroom atmostohere. 
5. Teachers under the different Offices will differ in measuring and evaluating activities. 
~uProcedures~u: 
The population applied in the research consisted of twenty - three Prathomsuksa five English teachers of the acadamic vear 1988 from schools under the office of the Amphur Muang Nakhonphanom Primary Education and seven others from the Muang Nakhonphanom Municipality. 
The behavior check - list observing form was the instrument of the research. 
From three pretests, its reliabilities were found out of being .83, .85, .85 respectively. 
The percentage was the statistical device used for the data analysis. 
~uConclusion~u: 
The findinas of the study revealed that : 
1. Considering all 5 phases combined, English - teaching behaviors of teachers in schools under the Office of Amphur Muang Nakhonphanom Primary Education were at the middle level. 
When all 5 phases were studied separately; the finding showed that measuring and evaluating activities was at the highest level, while teaching preparation, teaching and learning activities and using of teaching aids were at the low level. 
2. Considering all 5 phases together English - teaching behaviors of teachers under the Muang Nakhonphanom Municipality were at the middle level. 
When all 5 phases of English - teaching behaviors were studied separately, the finding showed that the measuring and evaluating activities were at the highest level, whereas the using of teaching aids was at the low level. 
3. In comparing the English - teaching behaviors of the two groups of teachers, with all phases combined, the findings showed that both were at the middle level. 
But, when each phase of English-teaching behaviors was considered the results of the studv showed that teachers under the Office of Amphur Muang Nakhonphanom Primary Education were at the lower level, with the exception of the using of teaching aids and the measuring and evaluating activities where there were no difference.
