The purpose of this study is to evaluate theperformance of the South Asian Association for RegionalCo-operation (SAARC) in the 1980'&. 
This period washighlighted by the efforts of this Association toestablish regional co-operation and its implementationof its policy in order to point out its development,co-operation and conflicts between SAARC's memberstates, as well as the future trend of the Association. 
The finding of this study show that the rationalebehind the establishment of SAARC derived from thefollowing considerations; 
(1) Unlike other regionswhich have developed cooperative agencies forconsultation on a regional basis, South Asia had nosuch equivalent. 
(2) This type cooperative organizationwould help different countries in this region to copemore effectively with the poverty in their region whichis one of the poorest in the world. 
(3) South AsianCooperation will strengthen the bargainning power ofthe South in any North-South negotiation as well ascontribute to Global South-South cooperation. 
(4)Regional cooperation in South Asia is likely tostrengthen its voice effectively in internationalforums. 
(5) Regional Cooperation may help reducepolitical tension in South Asia. 
(6) The joint ventureprogrammes of SAARC can greatly curtail the dominantrole of the transnational corporations etc. 
South Asian Association for regional cooperationwas established on the initiative of the formerPresident Ziaur Rahman of Bangladesh in the half of1980'&. 
SAARC has developed a organizational structurefor cooperation its member states, especially in thefollowing fields (1) Agriculture (2) Health andPopulation (3) Meteorology (4) Postal Service (5)Prevention of Drug Trafficking and Abuse (6) RuralDevelopment (7) Science and Technology (8) Sports, Artand Culture (9) Telecommunications (10) Transport (11)Women in Development (12) Audio-vision Exchange (13)organized Tourism (14) Documentation (15) SAARC Chairs,Fellowships and Scholarships (16) Youth VolunteerExchange (17) Prevent of Terrorism etc. 
However, this region is still plagued by numerousconflicts largely attributable to India with itsimperialist policy. 
These conflicts can be grouped asfollows: (1) Conflicts between India and Pakistan (2)Conflicts between India and Bangladesh (3) Conflictsbetween India and Sri Lanka (4) Conflicts between Indiaand its neighboring Nepal, Maldives and Bhutan. 
The findings of the study can be summarized asfollow. 
SAARC's early founding efforts were marked byregional conflicts which hindered the Association frombecoming a true Supra-National organization of regionalcooperation. To avoid
