The purposes of this study are to investigate therelationship among factors namely demographic variables,socio-economic, status, and communication and self care behaviorof sexual transmitted diseased clinical patients. 
Data werecollected from 360 female prostitutes and male patients ofveneral disease and AIDS clinics in Bangkok Metropolitan Area.
Questionnaire forms were administered to subjects through theprocess of clinical visit. 
Percentage, t-test, Pearson productmoment correlation coefficients and Multiple Regression Analysiswere used to analysis data through SPSS/PC('+) program. 
Results indicated that: 
1. Subject exposed to AIDS information from televisioninterpersonal media and specialized media respectively. 
In termsof opportunity to receive AIDS information, subjects had frominterpersonal media followed by newspaper and television.
Newspaper were found to give understanding to them more thanother types of media followed by interpersonal media andtelevision. 
As for AIDS information gratification sought,newspapers were found to serve this function the best, followedby television and specialized media. 
2. Age, formal education, income, years of having sexualexperience and V.D. experience were found to be correlated withexposure to AIDS information through newspapers. 
Formaleducation, income, years of having sexual experience and V.D.experience were found to be correlated with exposure to AIDSinformation through magazines and journals. 
Years of havingsexual experience and V.D. experience were found to be related toexposure to AIDS information through radio. 
Formal education,income and years of having sexual experience were found to berelated to AIDS information exposure from television andspecialized media. 
Finally, formal education, income, and V.D.experience were found to be correlated with exposure to AIDSinformation from interpersonal media. 
3. Age, formal education, income, years of having sexualexperience and V.D. experience were found to be correlated withAIDS preventive self care behavior. 
4. AIDS information exposure through newspapers journalsand interpersonal media were found to be related to AIDSpreventive self care behavior. 
5. Male AIDS and V.D. clinic attendants were more activethan female prostitutes in terms of exposure of AIDS informationthrough media and AIDS preventive self care behavior. 
6. Formal education is the most important factor thatexplain AIDS information exposure through mass media. 
Inaddition, AIDS information exposure is the most important factorsthat explained AIDS preventive self care behavior.