The purpose of this research was to study the trends of Industrial Education Bachelors Degree Curriculum, Five-Year Program in Electrical Communication, by using Delphi technique. 
The sample were 20 experts. 
The instruments used in this research were semi-structured interview forms and questionnaires. 
The data were analyzed by median, mode and interquartile range. 
The results were as follows: 
Objectives of the Five-Year Program emphasized on knowledge and ability of the student to construct and develop vocational curriculum. 
Moreover, the students can apply technology to teaching and administrative management, and can work as an entrepreneur. 
Educational period was 4-10 years. 
The student qualified to study in this program must hold high school certificate or its equivalent. 
Total credits of curriculum were 162-180 consisting of 30-35 credits in general education, 126-136 credits in specific subjects and 6-9 credits in elective courses. 
Curriculum structure composed of subject groups in general education emphasized on Thai, English, natural and environmental conservation, and Thai culture conservation. 
The specific subject group consisted of both educational and engineering professional subjects. 
Subjects in educational subgroup were teaching professional including vocational psychology, adolescent psychology, theory of learning and instruction, and teaching practice seminar. 
Engineering professional subjects were similar to those of four-year program plus engineering professional subjects, such as microwave engineering, optical communication network, engineering materials and mechanical dynamics. 
Evaluations of learning and skill and knowledge development of student were mainly measured by several techniques focusing on student achievement in real practical work indicated by portfolio. 
Instructors qualification of the curriculum must be masters degree holders in either industrial education or engineering and related areas of the subjects in the curriculum.
