The purpose of this research was to study the status and needs of the computer instruction in private primary schools in provinces, excluding Bangkok. 
This research used a questionnaire as the tool to collect data with samples of 232 computer department heads and computer teachers in 116 private primary schools. 
The data was analyzed by using frequency, percentage, mean, and standard deviation. 
The research results indicated as follow: 
Most schools have only one computer lab for teaching. 
They have about 21 or 30 computers, which can offer 2 students to share one computer and those computers and printers are Stand Alone. 
Different schools provide their own Computer Assisted Instruction (CAI) sets. 
Most of the teachers do not have a degree in computer science. 
Higher Primary levels P.5, P.6, are those who have the most computer subjects. 
They are using Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel and Paintbrush programs for teaching, running under Windows 95 and Windows 98. 
They are also using the computer lessons for skill practics, such as CAI games, CAI typing and CAI drawing. 
Moreover, they are using CAI to teach English, Mathematics, and Thai subjects. 
Teachers have to create the curricula and textbooks by themselves. 
School budget is spent on computers that we can use for the period of teaching for 3 or 4 years. 
Most schools need more computer labs. 
Those schools, which already have computers still need more memory (RAM), hard disk, and the connections between computers and printers into networks. 
New and modern curricula are also needs, for which require experienced-teachers who have abilities to transfer and motivate. 
Moreover, texts and Internet in the library, CAI for all subjects are required. 
Each school also has to set the standard for computer study. 
Students can practice using computer programs. 
The school has to increase the budget for purchasing more tools and training programs for computer teachers. 
Setting up an Internet agent to plan for future computer education is also necessary.
