The purposes of this research were to study job satisfaction of the staff of Thai Farmers Bank in the Eastern Region,-and to compare it by four variables namely; work experiences, sexes, salaries and job positions. 
The research instrument used in this study was a forty-four-items rating scale questionnaire made by the researcher and covered 14 aspects of job satisfaction of the staff of Thai Farmers Bank in the Eastern Region. 
The population was the 551 staff, and the data were analyzed by using arithmetic mean and standard deviation. 
The result showed that the overall job satisfaction of the staff of Thai Farmers Bank in the Eastern Region was at a middle level. 
When considering aspect by aspect, it was found that job satisfaction in eight aspects was at a high level. 
Ranking in order of their mean scores, these were; sufficiency in communications, working condition, work standards, efficiency in management, confidence in management, friendship and cooperation among co-workers, technical competence of supervisors and social status and recognition. 
Meanwhile, job satisfaction in other six aspects was at a middle level, and ranking in order of their mean scores, they are as follows; identification of members with the organization, job security and work relations, relationship between superiors and subordinates, opportunity for advancement, compensation and benefits, and salaries or wages. 
When comparing job satisfaction of the staff by four variables, it was found that work experiences, sexes and job positions (management level and support level) did not affect the level of satisfaction. 
These staff were all satisfied at the middle level. 
Only salaries affected job satisfaction of staff. 
The research showed that staff whose salaries were more than 5,000 Baht/month expressed satisfaction at a high level, while those whose salaries were 5,000 Baht/month or lower were satisfied at a middle level. 
From this study it is recommended that there should be studies on the same topics in other Regions of the country and if similar result: are found, for an example, compensation, benefits and salaries were rated last on the list of the 14 aspects of job satisfaction, than the Head Office should consider their adjustment. 
As for branch managers of Thai Farmers Bank in the Eastern Region, it is recommended that relationship between superiors and subordinates should be strengthened e. g. through recreational activities. 
This should bring about an increase in morale and job satisfaction.