Changwat Phetchaburi itself is an ancient livinghistorical community, since she has been established 1200B.E. 
Their growth and status changed urbanization communityall the time. 
According to the 6th National Economic andSocial Development Plan, to up grade Changwat Phetchaburi tobe Second Western Middle Plain Province, an including Cha-umSea Resort Development Planning Promotion, that would be thegreat impact effect to: The Physical Condition,Demographycal, Econoincal, and Sociological problems intothe provincial level and municiple community itself. 
Thatneed request about environment conservation of distantperiod, cultutal resort and artistic value to be synchronousdone with the urbanization, development. 
There are several objective of the studying as: Tostudy the existing condition of the Phetchaburi community.
To study the historic places in scope of the origin,artistic and historical value. 
To study the existinghistorical places, contexts and surrounding relationship.
Including creativity suggestion proposal for conservationmethod the Phetchaburi community development programme . 
The study process is divided in three stages: To studyprimary and secondary information. 
To evaluated ofconservation, and community development, and the finalprocess is to propose a recommendation report of TheConservation Historical Places and Community DevelopingProgramme. 
The case study are found, There are two kind ofcommunity growth. 
The growth direction spread out from the municipalboundary. 
Other high density growth in the municiple that bea great impact to the historical sites, both in historicalplaces, zone and downtown communities, that contraceptionplaces and communities. 
In the case of historical sites should be limited thegrowth density. 
But in existing case community intruded andsurround along boundary frame. 
The contexts of mixinglanduse, traffic and communication net work, the open -space and park area shortage. 
And historical place are inlimited enclosure. 
That result of communities invading tohistorical places. 
The conclusion propose are divided in to two stages:The political stage, the township community stage. 
Theobjective of Rolitical stage is to educate, intensiveinformation knowledge of conservation and development forthe planner, government employees, whole concern to projectin the community and provicial level to the public toorganize and generated. 
The planning objective willsuccessive, because of out- standing and accessible imply onconservation concept and direction of community developmentobjective. 
The objective of township community stage theconservation and community development are devided 2 zone :The outer plain boundary for township expansion in futureand inner boundary for conservation and urbanisationcommunity. 
The propose are : rezone of landuse, theinfrastructure system reform, the traffic and communicationsystem conversion, the touring circle systems. 
That will be addup the relationip and co-existingbetween histrorical place and the township with harmonous.