This research is aim to studying and comparing the effectof relocation of private and government sectors which the hiringis over 2,000 people each. The research is to study the housingneeds and the living behavior in order to determine the future ofhousing needs. 
There are two organizations shoosen for the study,ie. Siam Commercial Bank Co.,Ltd. and The CommunicationsAuthority of Thailand. 
The outcome of the research study reveals that bothorganizations transfer their headquarters into the suburb area,for CAT from Bangrak to Chaeng Wattana Rd. since 2529 BE., forSCB form Phetchaburi Rd. to Ratchadaphisek Rd. in 2539 BE. 
Therelocation causes the increasing of CAT employees using their ownvehicles and the CAT's employees bus. 
The same happens to SCB'semployees while the city bus choice is less chosen. 
Bothorganizations agree about the space of new offices satisfactory,meanwhile, the time with their family is shorter. 
They have noother choice but moving to the new office. 
Most of them have nopreparation for new place to stay. 
26.1 % of SCB employees and31.9 % of CAT employees think of moving into a new place when therelocation happen. The main reasons are to be close to their newoffice and for convenience trip to work. 
The single think aboutmoving their living place more than those who are married. 
Alsothe lower position tend to relocate into the new place more thanthose who are in higher position. 
The longer the trip to theworking place the more they want to relocate to the new place.
The trip that is longer than 120 minutes concludsively triggertheir want to relocate. 
Both organization's employees want to have single and townhouse because they can own the sitting land. 
The project housesare prefered. 
The factors for choosing the residence are price,location, transportation and adjacent area to the working office.
Most of them want modern-designed house with the price betweenamount of Baht 750,000-1,500,000 and the instalment option. 
SCB'semployees prefer the location in Ladphrao, Bang Bua Thong, RamIntra and Chaeng Wattana. 
CAT's employees prefer Chaeng Wattana,Ram Intra and Rangsit-Pathum Thani. 
The lower position employeeslike to be closer to office more than those who are in thehigher position. 
The recommendation for the relocation areprovide employee's bus, flat within 2 km. 
radian from the newoffice, single and town house in the corperative system, andfinally the low interest housing loan.