Background : The aims of secondary school management were : to enable the learners to be knowledgeable in academic and vocation, so that they can choose professions useful for themselves and the society. 
Secondary schools which were managed by the government in the provincial level, umpher, and tambol were composed of extra-large size, large size, middle size and small size and small secondary schools were inferior than all of the schools mentioned above in all aspects. 
Most of the small secondary schools in Educational Region 5 were situated in the country which was difficult to have access to. 
Small secondary schools always lacked teachers and most of the teachers educational background was lower than the bachelor degree. 
For these reasons, the reasearcher was interested in studying the existing situations and the needs of personnel development activities in small secondary schools under the Department of General Education in Educational Region 5 so that the result of the study could be used to improve the personnel development of the teachers. 
Objectives of the Research: 
1. To study the existing situations of personnel development activities as perceived by teachers of small secondary schools under the Department of General Education in Educational Region 5 
2. To study the needs for personnel development activities as perceived by teachers of small secondary schools under the Department of General Education in Educational Region 
5. Teacher groups were categorized according to teaching subjects as followed 
: mathematics sciences, Thai, social study, English, physical education and arts. 
Needs for personnel development activities could be grouped into 6 areas as followed: 
orientation, training, seminar and workshop, distribution of educational information, study tours, moral development and continuing education. 
Methodology: The sample used in this study consisted of 362 teachers from small secondary schools under the Department of General Education, Educational Region 5 in 1989. 
The stratified sampling teachnique was implemented. 
Instrument : The instrument implemented to collect the data was a 35-item rating scale questionnaire designed by the researcher. 
Statistical Devices: 
Mean and standard deviation were used in this study. 
Summary of the Findings: The findings of the study were : 
the personnel development activities of small secondary schools under the Department of General Education in Educational Region 5 in the six areas combined were at a medium level. 
However, when each division was closely examined, personnel development activities at low level were : 
study tours and continuing education. 
In the other four areas; ditribution of education information, training/seminar and workshop, orientation and moral development, they were rated of beling at a medium level. 
The level of needs for personnel development activities of small secondary schools under the Department of General Education, Educational Region was found of being high in all the areas of personnel development activities and in all groups of teachers. 
The finding of the study prevails the need for higher level of support from the administrators of small secondary schools in teachers personnel development activities especially in the two areas; study tours and continuing education and the activities that ought to be provided according to need of each teaching subject were especially in the two areas; training/seminar and workshop and distribution of educational information
