The purpose of this survey research was to study the nurses level of knowledge of patients rights, the level of awareness of patients rights, the level of caring for terminally ill patients and the relationship between knowledge of patients rights, awareness of patients rights and caring for terminally ill patients among these nurses. 
Concept of patients rights and Watsons Theory of Transpersonal Caring were used as a framework for the study. 
The sample consisted of 143 nurses who were working in the medicine, surgical, orthopedic, gyne and EENT wards at the Faculty of Medicine Ramathibodi Hospital, selected by purposive sampling. 
A self administered questionnaire was used to collect the data to measure the nurses knowledge of patients rights, awareness of patients rights and caring for terminally ill patients. 
The reliability of this tool was 0.52, 0.86 and 0.96. 
The statistical methods used in data analysis were frequencies, percentage, range, arithmetic mean, standard deviation and Pearson Product Moment Correlation Coefficient. 
Result of the study showed that the knowledge of patients rights was at a high level (78.3%), awareness of patients rights was at a high level (97.9%) and caring for terminally ill patients was at a high level (50.3%). 
The Pearson Correlation Coefficient analysis showed no significant correlations between the nurses knowledge of patients rights and nurses caring for terminally ill patients. 
Awareness of patients rights and caring for terminally ill patients were significantly correlated in a positive way at a middle level 
It is recommended that nurses caring for terminally ill patients should be at a high level. 
Nurses should be trained in effective care of tenninally ill patients and, the standard method of tenninally ill patient advocacy. 
There should be programs about the knowledge of patients rights. 
Awareness of patients rights should be promoted so that nurses feel comfortable and willing to care for patients with patients rights in mind.