Pulmonary Tuberculosis is an epidemic and chronic disease which affects people, physically, mentally, socially and emotionally. 
This is because the patients have to face many symptoms such as dypsnea, hemoptysis and chest pain, all of which can be more severe in accordance with the condition of the disease. 
The problem has- a direct impact with the happiness and the way of life of the patients, and that means the correct and continuous self care is very important. 
The purpose of this research was to study the perceived self-efficacy and the self care behavior of the 150 pulmonary tuberculosis patients being treated at the OPD Division of The Tuberculosis Division, Department of Communicable Disease Control. 
The researcher collected the data by a personal data form, a perceived self-efficacy inventory and a self care behavior inventory between May 1999 to July 1999. 
Percentage, mean, standard deviation, The Pearsons product moment correlation coefficient, multiple correlation coefficient and stepwise multiple regression were used for data analysis. 
It was found that the mean score of total perceived self efficacy was in the high level and self care behavior of the pulmonary tuberculosis patients was in a good level .  
Perceived self-efficacy had a positive relationship with the self care behavior of the pulmonary tuberculosis patients at a statistically significant level .
The education level had a positive relationship with the self care behavior and the perceived self-efficacy at a statistically significant level . 
Age had a negative relationship with the perceived self-efficacy and the self care behavior at a statistically significant level  respectively. 
From the analysis using the stepwise multiple regression technique, it was found that the perceived self-efficacy and the education level could predict the self care behavior of the pulmonary tuberculosis patients by 66 percent. 
The researcher recommended that in nursing, the nurses have to realize and encourage the patients to have properly perceived self-efficacy that will bring the motivation to develop appropriate and continuous self care.