The purpose of this quasi-experimental researchwas to develop a dischargeplanning model for head injurypatients admitted at Khon Kaen Regional Hospital andMedical Center and test model's effectiveness. 
Thecharacteristic of discharge planning model which wasdeveloped is a plan for patient's discharge consisted of5 steps of nursing process. 
The model were applied byprofessional nurses who had experienced in nursing carehead injury patients who needed individualize dischargeplanning and co-operated with patients relatives alsocommunicated and coordinated with health team and nursingteam in the unit for developing a discharge plan andimplementing. 
There were 5 experimental instrumentsconsisted of patient's record and assesment form dischargeplanning form, discharge planning guide, patient'srelative and patient teaching guide and patient recordand advisory form used in each step of discharge planningprocess. 
Instrument for testing of model's effectivenesswere pre and post test of patients'relatives knowledgeabout head injury, test of patients'relatives satisfactionand patients'satisfaction toward discharge planning.
Tests were done 2 weeks after the experiment. 
Sampleswere 15 head injury patients, 15 patients'relatives. 
The major findings were as following: 
1. The overall comparison between pre and post testmean score about basic head injury of patients'relativesfound that post test mean score were significantlyhigher than pre test mean score at .01 level. 
Determing7 aspects of knowledge of patients'relatives there wereknowledge of pathophysiology of head injury, food care,medicinal care, environmental and rehabillitational caremean score post test that significantly higher than pretest at .01 level. 
Two aspects of physical mental changeand caring and medical appointment were no statisticallydifference at .01 level. 
2. Mean score of 3 aspects of patients'relation'satisfaction toward discharge planning were in high level. 
3. Mean Score of 2 aspects of patients'satisfactiontoward discharge planning were in highest level.