The purposes of this study were to examine qualityof life and problem in daily living after hearttransplantation. 
Samples were 10 heart transplantationrecipients selected among those heart transplantationrecipients who were attended the heart clinic ofChulalongkorn hospital. 
The instruments used in thestudy were composed of demographic data, the subjectivequality of life evaluation form, the indepth interviewguideline and the problem in daily livingquestionnaires. 
Data was analysed by arithmatic meanand standard deviation. 
Content analysis was used toanalyse qualitative data. 
Results of the study showedthat the majority of the studied cases had high meanscore on quality of life. 
All studied cases reportedbetter quality of life after transplantation. 
For thehealth and functioning domain, all studied cases foundtheir health status had dramatic improvement afterheart transplantation. 
There were some complicationsafter heart transplantation including hypertension,hyperlipidemia, hypertrichosis, hypergingiva, heartrejection, acne and infection. 
All studied cases couldwork and took their family responsibilities as they didbefore their illness. 
Some studied cases felt tiredduring and after sexual activity and some decreased ofsexual interest. 
For the nursing and treatment domain,all studied cases visited doctor every appointment. 
Allstudied cases complied with medical regimen and drugs.
Some reported that they had a cold more often thanbefore transplantation and most of them lacked ofregular exercise. 
For the psychological and spiritualdomain, all studied cases satisfied with their life.
But there were some problems in moods. 
It was foundthat spouse, family member, friend, monk and faith inreligion had been very supportive during their illness.
For the socio-economic domain, some of the studiedcases reported that the expenses of medical care anddrugs was the major problem after transplantation. 
Somestudied cases were supported by socialworker. 
For thefamily domain, all studied cases enjoyed their families.
When considered the demographic data, it was found thatmarital status, educational level, employment, incomeand their province were correlated with quality oflife. 
The problem in daily living, eight of the studiedcases were at low level, while the other two cases wereat moderate level. 
Conclusion, all studied cases improved theirquality of life after heart transplantation. 
Theproblem in daily living, eight of the studied caseswere at low level, while the other two cases were atmoderate level.