The purposes of this research were to studyprofessional nurses' verbal and non verbalcommunication behaviors and compared professionalnurses' communication behaviors concerning physical andpsychological care with orthopaedic patients inhospitals under the jurisdiction of the department ofMedical Services, Ministry of Public Health, BangkokMetropolitan. 
Non-participant observation was used. 
Thepopulation consisted of 30 professional nurses workingin orthopaedic ward at Leard Sin and Rajavithihospital. 
Research instruments were questionnaireenquiring the perception of professional nurses' roles,the reliability was 0.98 and an observational form onthe nurses' communication behaviors concerning physicaland psychological care with orthopaedic patients, theobservational form reliability was 0.81. 
The data wasanalyzed by percent, mean, standard deviation andt-test. 
The results of the study revealed as follows : 
1. The mean score of professional nurses' positivecommunication behaviors concerning physical andpsychological care with orthothopaedic patients washigher than negative way. 
The mean score ofcommunication concerning physical care was higher thanpsychological care and significant at the .01 level. 
2. There was no significant difference between themean score of professional nurses' communicationbehavior classified by age. 
3. There was no significant difference between themean score of professional nurses' overallcommunication behavior classified by marital status.
But there was difference between the positive verbal,non-verbal and time used in psychological care at the.05 level. 
Those who were single had higher mean scoresthan the married. 
4. There were no significant difference betweenthe mean scores of verbal, non-verbal and time ofprofessional nurses' overall communication behaviorsclassified by work experience. 
But there weredifference between the proxemic (overall), and physicaldistance at 18 inches to 4 feet at the .01 and .05level and time used in psychological care at the .05level. 
Those with more than 6 years experience hadhigher mean scores than those with 1-5 yearsexperience. 
5. There were no significant difference betweenthe mean scores of verbal, non-verbal and time ofprofessional nurses' overall communication behaviorsclassified by training. 
But there was differencebetween the mean score of proxemic (overall) at 4 to 12feet at the .05 level. 
Those who had training hadhigher mean scores than those who had not. 
6. There was no significant difference between themean score of professional nurses' communicationbehavior classified by the perception of professionalnurses' roles.