Sleep is a fundamental need of human beings, especially in hospitalized heart failure patients. 
There are various stimuli that disturb their sleep quality. 
Uncertainty in illness as an internal stimulus and event familiarities consisting of nursing activities, noises and light as external stimuli were studied in this study. 
These stimuli may be related to sleep quality. 
The results of this study should act as a guide to improve nursing management, quality of sleep, and eventually, quality of life. 
The objectives of this descriptive study are to describe quality of sleep, uncertainty in illness, and event familiarities and to examine the relationships between these variables and sleep quality in hospitalized heart failure patients. 
The Mishel Uncertainty in Illness Theory was used as a framework for this study. 
The samples were 120 hospitalized heart failure patients admitted to medical wards of Assadang Building, Siriraj Hospital. 
All patients were interviewed by the researcher using questionnaires to ascertain demographic data, sleep quality, modified uncertainty in illness, and event familiarities. 
Data were analyzed by using frequency, percentages mean, standard deviation, range, and Pearsons Product Moment Correlation coefficient. 
The results of this study showed that sleep quality of the hospitalized heart failure patients was at a moderate level. 
They reported more uncertainty in illness. 
They also agreed that event familiarities disturbed their sleep quality. 
Uncertainty in illness, ambiguity, event familiarities, noises and lights were negatively correlated to sleep quality   
Complexity, inconsistency of information, unpredictability and nursing activities were also negatively related to sleep quality in hospitalized heart failure patients . 
The results from this study could be used as a guideline for nurses and healthcare providers assessing uncertainty in illness and event familiarities in hospitalized heart failure patients to minimize uncertainty so they can promote rest and sleep. 
An appropriate environment should be created for the patient. 
Finally, the results could also be useful in planning and educating patients to cope with illness in order to enhance their quality of life.