To examine the effects of supplemented vitamin C on endothelialnitric oxide synthase (eNOS) in diabetes mellitus, the animal model ofstreptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats (a single intravenous injectionof STZ ; 50 mg/kg BW) was used. 
Male Spraque-Dawley rats weighing 200-250 gwere divided randomly into three groups of control (CON), diabetes (DM) anddiabetic supplementation with vitamin C (DM+Vit.C). 
The supplementation ofvitamin C was performed by allowing the animals freely assessed to drinkingwater added 1 g/L of ascorbic acid (Sigma, Chemical Co., USA). 
The experiment were performed at 12 and 24 weeks (wks) afterinjection of citrate buffer solution STZ. 
On the day of experiment, bodyweight (BW), plasma vitamin C, blood sugar (BS) were evaluated for allanimals. 
Isolated heart, aorta and lung used for Western blot analysis wereimmediately collected from every rats. 
The results showed that both groups of 12 and 24 wks DM groups havethe significantly increase in blood glucose (BS), 
but decrease in BW andplasma vitamin C levels as compared to their age-match control groups.
However, the plasma vitamin C levels was significantly increased inDM+Vit.C group as compared to DM group (p<0.01). 
The eNOS protein bands obtained by Western blot analysis usingmonoclonal antibody against eNOS were quantified by Global Lab Imagesoftware analysis. 
The values of pixel numbers within each eNOS band fromimage analyzed were directly converted to amount of eNOS proteins of eachsample by the standard equation, Y = 5.9 x 10('3)X. 
After that all convertedconcentration of eNOS proteins were then normalized using the correlationby 100% equal to 5 (+,m)g total protein. 
It was found that the diabeticstate caused the reduction of eNOS protein expression in the heart but notin the lung for both 12 and 24 weeks. 
Interestingly, it also found thatlung have significantly higher eNOS protein levels in DM+Vit.C as comparedto DM for both 12 and 24 wks (p<0.001). 
In conclusion, the present study has demonstrated that theapplication of digital image analysis can be used for convertingqualitative method, such as Western blotting, to quantitative method. 
Byusing standard protein, the sensitivity of its application is well enoughfor differentiate the changes of protein content in microgram level. 
Andthe accuracy of this application is within (+,ฑ) 15.76%. 
From the presentresults indicated that the endothelial dysfunction induced by diabetichyperglycemia has been resulted to the decrease in eNOS protein level inheart but not in lung of DM rats. 
Therefore, we hypothesized that it mightdue to the difference of high-and low-flow, that mediated eNOS proteinsynthesis, in heart and lung, respectively. 
However, this finding suggeststhat vitamin C supplementation could prevent the diabetic-inducedendothelial impairment, especially to prevent eNOS protein damage in highflow systemic circulation. 
Therefore, it is suggested that vitamin C mightbe a great chemopreventive agent for diabetic cardiovascular complications.