Although most societies accept patients rights, societies are rarely asked for their implementation, especially in the case of sick prisoners. 
The objective of this research was to examine whether the services provided to patients in the Correctional Hospital were performed with respect for the patients rights. 
The study combined descriptive, survey and qualitative design (phenomenology as naturalistic inquiry). 
The sample was composed of professional nurses in the inpatient department and sick prisoners treated in the inpatient wards between March 2001 and May 2001. 
Observations were made on treatments with respect for the patients rights and the nursing services mistakes. 
The nurses perception was measured on operational processes, practice concerning patients rights and input factors, such as, manpower, the amount of equipment and drugs that affected the nursing operations. 
The data were analyzed by using percentage, mean, Pearsons correlation coefcient, Chi-square, and content analysis was conducted for qualitative data. 
It was found that the overall patients satisfaction regarding treatments with respect for the patients rights was at a high level by prisoners perceptions. 
Similarly, professional nurses perception and individual treatments with respect for the patients rights were at a high level. 
There was no correlation between the nurses perceptions and the treatments with respect for the patients rights. 
Nursing process was not obviously identified as it should be. 
Moreover, lack of manpower and lack of follow-up and evaluation of the helpers performance resulted in services mistakes. 
The qualitative approach showed that keeping the patients information confidential, terminal patient and emergency patient management, as well as preventing any nursing services mistakes, needed to be improved. 
It is recommended that the health team should determine policies and operational standards of respect for patients rights. 
This would result in health service quality for prisoners in the future.