The Dawn of Happiness at Sukhothai
Share
The Dawn of Happiness at Sukhothai
"... Sukhothai is fertile, there are fishes in the water and plenty of rice in the paddy field. 
The mayor doesn’t collect tax from people. 
The people sell the cattle or some sell horses, here people can trade freely, they can sell anything they like to sell, elephants, horses, gold or silver. 
Sukhothai people are happy and live a good life”
In the past, Sukhothai was the capital of Thailand founded by the Thais and was very prosperous and beautiful. 
If you talk about Sukhothai, in history, this city was the kingdom of the early Thai people in the 18th-19th centuries, about 700 years ago. 
Since the reign of King Khunsri Naonamthom and got obviously greater in the times of King Sri Indrathit. 
The era of the Sukhothai Kingdom flourished at the age of King Ramkhamhaeng. 
But later Sukhothai was abandoned and people have migrated to Ayutthaya. 
Nowadays, it has become an old city and another important historical tourist attraction of Thailand, with many traces of the past. 
In addition, Sukhothai has many beautiful natural attractions to find out. 
Then discover the unforgettable charm of this old town.
Sukhothai Airport 
Visitors to Sukhothai can start at the first checkpoint at Sukhothai airport. 
Because the airport here is not like anywhere else. 
In addition to the beautiful architecture built in harmony with the old town, it is an open-air Thai-style building based on ancient Sukhothai art. 
This building was awarded the outstanding architecture. 
From the Association of Siamese Architects and many other awards around the airport area over 2,000 Rai. 
There are many interesting things from the worship of the holy things, including the Lord Buddha (Pro Chao Tan Jai), Burmese art, which was built in a single day. 
In the Hall will be the PraShet Suwannasatsada. 
Sukhothai art Buddha and the one relics of Buddha.
There are also organic farming projects, rice mills, rice barns, vegetable plots, organic fruits, duck farms, all of which are cooked at Krua Suko Restaurant. 
And a small zoo, including giraffes, zebras, deer, kangaroos, dwarf animals, many other species. 
In the morning, there will be more than 200 white buffalo released to eat grass. 
The buffalo here is redeemed from the slaughterhouse and here they don’t have to do anything just eat and make fertilizer. 
Anyone who is attracted to the atmosphere here, there is a hotel available as well
Address: Khlong Krachong, Sawankhalok District, Sukhothai
Sukhothai Historical Park / Old Town  (อุทยานประวัติศาสตร์สุโขทัย/เมืองเก่าสุโขทัย)
Sukhothai Historical Park is a fascinating historical and cultural attraction. 
The park has a distinctive architecture that represents early art and the origin of the creation of Thailand. 
It has been declared a World Cultural Heritage by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. 
To say that it is worth to find a visit to one or more times, you will fall in love with it there.
Sukhothai Historical Park is located opposite the Ramkhamhaeng National Museum. 
Away from the province of Sukhothai to the west about 12 kilometers, which is filled with important historical sites such as the city gate, the city, the ruins of ancient temples, temples, still so many remains that we can explore. 
The most important remains are the palace and the 26 temples are Wat Mahathat, the most important temple in Sukhothai. 
It is like the Temple of the Emerald Buddha or Wat Phra Kaew today. 
Featured is the pagodas which are total of 200. 
On the pagoda is the largest bronze Buddha image in Thailand is Phra Sri Sakyamuni. 
Created in the KING Khun Sri Indrathit era. 
It has been moved to Wat Suthat, Bangkok
Wat Traphang Ngoen One of the finest temples in Sukhothai. 
The identity of the temple is a lotus shape pagoda or mostly called Puma Kao Bin style, inside the pagoda is the Manvichi post statue of Buddha. 
In the pond are many beautiful lotus.   
Wat Si Chum, is a temple of the goddess, Pra Ajana, the true Sukhothai Buddha Image art. 
It is very famous that people go to pay homage to the prosperity of life. 
And it is also the most beautiful sunset of Sukhothai. 
Wat Chana Songkhram is distinguished by the architecture of the pagoda's bell-shaped architecture, as well as the antiquities surrounding the temple show the greatness of the past.
Another point that should not be missed is Pottery Sukhothai (Tao Tu Reiang) it is oven to make Sukhothai crockery that made around the 18th century. 
They can be found a lot there. 
Before returning to pay homage to the great king of Thailand at the King Ramkhamhaeng, which was built in 1975. 
The statue will convey the kindness, compassion, justice and decency of His Majesty. 
To visit the park you can walk or bike and it is available daily, from 6 am to 9 pm (Saturday only open until 9 pm).
Address: Mueang Kao, Mueang Sukhothai District, Sukhothai
Si Satchanalai Historical Park  (อุทยานประวัติศาสตร์ศรีสัชนาลัย)
Another important park is the Si Satchanalai Historical Park. 
Originally, this area was called Chaleaing City. 
Later changed to Si Satchanalai during the reign of the royal throne of Pra Ruang. 
The king built a new city as the center of command to replace Chaleaing. 
The assessment of the Department of Art Park said that this place has been added and reconstructed from the original sites less than other places. 
It still Maintain the landscape of the historic city in full. 
It is also regarded as a cultural heritage of the world together with the Sukhothai Historical Park as well. 
Under the name Sukhothai Historical City and Acropolis.
Inside the park, there are 283 historical and antiquities discovered. 
There are 204 temples, both temples in the city walls and outside the city walls, such as Wat Phra Sri Ratana Mahathat. 
It is an important temple from the Sukhothai period to the Thonburi period. 
This temple was also used as a place for worshiping the king, which was held for the new king to take the throne. 
The large statue that still appears to be the main pagoda. 
Inside the pagoda, there is a lotus shape pagoda shaped that contains the important item and people called this thing the Buddha heart.
Next, let’s visit Wat Chang Lom, the main preserve is the main pagoda in Langa style. 
At the base of the pagoda there is a stucco elephant standing on the back of the pagoda wall, surrounded by 39 stingrays and elephants at the corners of the pagoda. 
Wat Chedi Chet Thaeo is more beautiful than any other temple in Sukhothai. 
There are many pagodas in the temple, both authentic Sukhothai and Sukhothai mixed martial arts. 
Phraya Damrongrnnaphat presided that this temple is enshrined as the remains of the royal family Sukhothai. 
Wat Nang Phaya is composed of a round pagoda. 
Wat Chomchuen, the important thing in the temple is the excavation of an ancient human skeleton buried here before the Sukhothai period. 
At present, the museum has been built as an open pit excavated to show the skeleton in various ways. 
Can be visited daily from 8 am to 5 pm.
In addition to historical stories. 
If anyone loves jewelry, then it is the right place. 
Because Sukhothai goldsmith Work is uniquely beauty. 
It is located in Si Satchanalai. 
This is a silver and gold trade for long time ago. 
Now it is also many shops that you can choose the one you like.
Address: Si Satchanalai District, Sukhothai
Ban Na Ton Chan  (บ้านนาต้นจั่น)
Ban Na Ton Chan, a small village with a lot of Chan trees. 
There are about 270 households. 
Most of the villagers are rice farmers, fruit farmers, grow bananas, lanterns, durians. 
The extra work is weaving, wickerwork, woodworking, all of which live together as a family and helping each other. 
It is a place where we can experience the traditional way of life. 
Here they have a homestay with good management system. 
The place is clean and nice to stay. 
You can rent a bike and ride in the village to watch the sunrise and sunset. 
If you want to see the sea of fog, you must go to Hau Ton Hai view point. 
Many people will wake up early in the morning to experience the beautiful nature closely and have a chance to join the band to eat folk food with the owner. 
Or you can buy fresh food to cook it yourself. 
There are also other activities to do like weaving, making fabric, making a doll or pick fruits.  
If you come in August to October, you will see the lush greenery on both sides. 
In the month of February, it will be able to take photo with field of sunhemp field, yellow flowers full of light.
Address: Ban Tuek, Si Satchanalai District, Sukhothai
Kong Krailat District / Rimyom Market  (อำเภอกงไกรลาศ/ตลาดริมยม)
Kong Krailat District or Bann Kong located along the Yom River. 
It is a traditional community in Sukhothai. 
Originally a shipping port from Bangkok. 
The villagers live in rafts and have a fishing career. 
The remaining fish from the sale and consumption will be processed to eat throughout the year. 
If you want to visit the traditional Thai way, you can ride a pig carriage, which is an ancient car that the Kong is also used to travel to each other. 
Either you want to visit Luang Por to Wat Wihan Roi or try Kanom Ping (Thai sweetmeat made of flour, egg and sugar) form aunty Tim, the famous place dessert place where sell so well that have to close the door because the fear of people to buy a lot and cannot make it enough for demands. 
The production process is done by hand at all stages that why cannot make it quick. 
In addition, there are OTOP products to buy like a pickled fish, fish sauce, dried fish, celadon, wicker basket.  
Or you can visit the living museum in the river, which shows the way of life of the Kong people living on both sides of Yom River. 
Then take a boat ride and try local fish dishes from the river. 
Finish before the departure of Kong Krailat District by walking in the Rimyom market on the first day of the month. 
To experience the atmosphere of the commercial district of the past. 
Enjoy delicious local food like, noodle in coconut, Pad Thai Noodle in banana leaf. 
And enjoy the ancient dance. 
You will found that the Kong people is courteous and welcoming tourists.
Address: Kong Krailat District, Sukhothai
The Holy Heart Land -Talayluang  (ทุ่งทะเลหลวง)
If anyone sits on a plane to Sukhothai through Talayluang. 
When looking down to see the earth below in the heart shape. 
It’s The Monkey Cheek Project of King Bhumibol Adulyadej of Thailand.
Came from the problem that Yom River in the rainy season is very watery but in the dry season, almost no water. 
Then became the water resources development in many areas. 
Including the area of ​​ Talayluang. 
It is a coincidence that the terrain makes it look like a large heart. 
Every family in each village of the 843 villages has brought the soil from their village to the central island and determine to build this land for prosperity.
Then all the soil was laid to accommodate the Rattanasiri Sukhothai Buddha. 
And call this area holy heart land. 
In the mid beauty of water and trees, this place is a source of relaxation and perfect spot for sunset of many people.
Not too far from Tungluang there is a cultural and intellectual attractions of the ancestors that are interesting. 
It’s Bann Tungluang, the ancient community from the Sukhothai period and it is  the famous for the pottery, a unique product of Sukhothai. 
When off farming season, more than 200 households continue to produce pottery as a supplementary occupation.
In addition, Ban Thung Luang Pottery Group has a homestay for visitors to stay overnight. 
Guests can watch the production of pottery. 
If you go in the harvest time, you can learn how to farm with the community. 
And eat local food.
Address: Tungluang District, Sukhothai
Wat Walukaram Ancient Wooden House Village , Khiri Mat District  (วัดวาลุการามและชุมชนบ้านไม้โบราณ อำเภอคีรีมาศ)
Khiri Mat District is located at the southern end of Sukhothai Province. 
The charm of the Khiri Mat district is the ancient 100 year old wooden house community. 
Many wooden houses are lined in front of the Temple of Wat Lalukaram or Wat Tanode, the main temple of Khiri Mat district, built in the Ayutthaya period. 
Today, some ancient wooden houses were converted into grocery stores, selling coffee and so on. 
You can chill out walking and see things, it’s so fun.
If you are tired, then stop to taste fresh palm sugar juice and sweets made of glutinous rice flour, put black beans, and sprinkle with grated coconut. 
The delicious of the district of Khiry Mat. 
It must be said that local people still maintain local culture. 
Traditional houses are well preserved. 
Khiry Mat District is another attraction that should not be missed when visiting Sukhothai
Address: Thetsaban 2, Tambon Tanot, Amphoe Khiri Mat, Chang Wat Sukhothai
Sawanwaranayok National Museum  (พิพิธภัณฑสถานแห่งชาติ สวรรควรนายก สุโขทัย)
The museum is based on the intention of Pra Sawan Woranayok. 
Former abbot of Sawan Woranayok Temple and former head monk of Sukhothai. 
He interested in studying and preserving cultural heritage. 
He gave the art pieces and antiques to be the property of the national. 
Interested in studying and preserving cultural heritage. 
The art and antiques are the property of the national.
The museum is divided into two sections. 
The lower floor exhibits Sukhothai potteries which are all from the collection of Pra Sawan Woranayok. 
The upper floor will display Buddhist sculptures of various art. 
Most of the antiquities have been collected by Pra Sawan Woranayok as well. 
The museum is open Wednesdays to Sundays from 9am to 4pm.
Address: Mueang Sawankhalok, Amphoe Sawankhalok, Chang Wat Sukhothai
Ramkhamhaeng National Park  (อุทยานแห่งชาติรามคำแหง)
Ramkhamhaeng National Park is the first park in Thailand. 
It is interesting both in history, archeology and nature that are preserved at the same time. 
It is the favorite place for those who love nature and love history. 
Especially the Kao Laung Mountain. 
The highest mountain of Sukhothai, which is covered by naturally occurring meadows. 
Who will go there must hike with a slope of 3.7 km. 
But when you get to the top you will forget that it’s so tried. 
Because there are many beautiful scenic spots. 
The picture is very catchy. 
You can see the scenery around the mountain. 
There are also beautiful waterfalls, such as rainbow waterfalls, Lam Keaw waterfalls, Hin Rang waterfalls, and caves as well.
Within the park are many species of wildlife such as red cow, bears, boars, and martin. 
And also the important plant like teaks and other hard wooden trees. 
Historical attractions include: 4 door historic gate, Buddha footprints, Pu Jao pagoda, Ma Ya cave, and Narai cave. 
The weather is cold all year round. 
The average temperature is 12-14 ° C. 
The best time to visit is from September to February. 
In the park, if you are accommodation and tents available. 
But you have to bring your own food there.
Address: Na Choeng Khiri, Khiri Mat District, Sukhothai
Thung Saliam District  (อำเภอทุ่งเสลี่ยม)
One fun day in Thung Saliam District. 
Located just 68 kilometers from Muang District, Sukhothai. 
It is a community that extends from Thoen District, Lampang Province. 
It is a cute little town that is quiet but nice to visit. 
Once in, you will experience the natural atmosphere of genuine, green fields surrounded by mountains throughout the route. 
Take a full breath of fresh air, relaxed and comfortable. 
There are coffee shops there that you just pay 10 baht for coffee but get a fantastic view.
If you want to eat tasty food, must stop at Somtum Yok Krok restaurant, famous restaurant for both tourists and the people of Thung Saliam.
Continue to the next destination at Wat Thung Saliam to pay homage to the Laung Por Sila, stone buddha, Nak Prok Posture. 
This Buddha image is Sukhothai art mixed with the art of Lopburi which is over 800 years old.
Address: Thung Saliam District, Sukhothai
The famous restaurants of Sukhothai
It is well known that when visit Sukhothai has to try the original Sukhothai noodles. 
There are many places to choose.
Ta Pui: on Jarod Vithiting, the first Sukhothai noodles restaurant in Sukhothai
Bua Noi: the most popular Sukhothai noodles place for tourists and local people
Mai Klang Krung: Original Sukhothai noodles
Jae Hae Noodle Place
Sukho Kitchen in Sukhothai Airport: Organic food ingredients
Siladol Restaurant: Thai food