Background English is considered a universal language which is widely used, as a foreign language that we should learn. 
English-is an elective subject in the Special Experience Subject Group for Prathomsuksa-five and six students in the Primary Education Curriculum of B.E. 2521. 
The English Curriculum puts an emphasis on the application in expecting that the students can apply English in their daily life. 
In the process of teaching and learning English, the teacher is the most important person because he or she is the one who directly uses the curriculum. 
As far as it has been done, there is still a great need for qualified English teachers, especially at the primary level. 
Consequently, the researcher would like to study the teaching behavior of English teachers as percieved by students, and to evaluate their comprehension in the teaching and learning English. 
Sakolnakorn is one of the provinces in which English teaching is provided in many schools. 
The researcher devises that it is necessary to study English teachers capability to see how proper their capability is, or if there is anything to be corrected and improved. 
As a result, it will help increase the effectiveness of the teaching and learning English. 
Purposes of Study 
1. To study the teaching behavior of the English teachers as perceived by Prathomsuksa-six students of primary schools under the Office of Sakolnakorn Provincial Primary Education in 3 areas : 
teaching-learning activities, using the equipment and instructional media, measurement and evaluation as well. 
2. To study the comprehension of Prathomsuksa-six English teachers of primary schools under the Office of Sakolnakorn Provincial Primary Education in 4 areas : 
the curriculum, teaching-learning activities, using the equipment and instructional media, measurement and evaluation as well. 
3. To compare the teaching behavior of the English teachers as perceived by Prathomsuksa-six students in 3 areas, as classified by their major subjects, teaching experience, and school sizes. 
4. To compare the comprehension of Prathomsuksa-six English teachers in 4 areas, as classified by their major subjects, teaching-learning activities, and school sizes. 
Hypotheses 
1. Students of different school sizes have different perception in the teaching behavior of their English teachers in 3 areas. 
2. Students studying English with English-major or English-minor teachers and those studying with non-English-major or non-Englishminor teachers have different perception in the teaching behavior of their English teachers in 3 areas. 
3. Students studying with teachers of different teaching experience have different perception in the teaching behavior of their English teachers in 3 areas. 
4. Students studying with teachers of different major subjects and different teaching experience have interaction in perceiving the teaching behavior of the English teachers in 3 areas. 
5. Teachers of different school sizes have different comprehension in the teaching and learning English in 4 areas. 
6. English-major or English-minor teachers, and non-English-major or non-English-minor teachers have different comprehension in the teaching and learning English in 4 areas. 
7. Teachers of different teaching experience have different comprehension in the teaching and learning English in 4 areas. 
8. Teachers of different major subjects and of different teaching experience have interaction in perceiving the comprehension in the teaching and learning English in 4 areas. 
Methodology The sample of this study was taken from the English teachers and Prathomsuksa-six students of the schools which the teachers were the sample. 
The sample, derived from multi-stage random sampling, was composed of 53 English teachers and 527 students of primary schools under the Office of Sakolnakorn Provincial Primary Education. 
The instruments used for collecting the data were :
A set of 59-item, three-rank rating-scale questionnaire on the teaching behavior of the English teachers as perceived by Prathomsuksa-six students in 3 areas: 
teaching-learning activities, using the equipment and instructional media, and measurement and evaluation. 
Thirty-five items of the comprehension test in English of Prathomsuksa-six English teachers in 5 areas : 
the curriculum, teaching-learning activities, using the equipment and instructional media, and measurement and evaluation. 
The questionnaire were constructed by the researcher and were checked and approved by seven experts. Then they were tried out with 30 English teachers and 30 Prathomsuksa-six students who were not included in the sample. 
The reliability of the questionnaire calculated by means of Cronbach-Alpha method, was 0.77 ; and the reliability of the test, calculated by means of Kuder-Richardson 21, was 0.84. 
The data were analyzed by F-test for ONE-WAY ANOVA and for TWO-WAY ANOVA. 
Conclusion The findings of the study were as follows : 
1. The teaching behavior performed by the teachers as perceived by the students in general was rated at a medium level, ranging from high to low as following measurement and evaluation, using the equipment and instructional media, and teaching-learning activities. 
2. The teaching behavior of the teachers as perceived by the students of schools of different sizes was statistically significant different at the level of .05 in the areas of teaching-learning activities. 
There was no statistically significant difference in the area of using the equipment and instructional media. 
3. The teachers major subjects and teaching experience had statistical significant interaction on the teaching behavior in the areas of teaching-learning activities, and measurement and evaluation at the level of .05. 
There was no statistically significant interaction on teaching behavior in the area of using the equipment and instructional media. 
4. The comprehension in the teaching and learning English in general was at low level, ranging from high to low as following, using the equipment and instructional media, teaching-learning activities, measurement and evaluation, and the curriculum. 
5. There were no statistically significant differences in the comprehension in the teaching and learning English of schools of different sizes in the areas of the curriculum, teaching-learning activities, using the equipment and instructional media, and measurement and evaluation. 
6. The teachers major subjects and teaching experience had statistical nonsignificant interaction on the comprehension of the teaching and learning English in the 4 areas : 
the curriculum, teaching-learning activities, using the equipment and instructional media, and measurement and evaluation.
