The point-of-origin and point-of-consumption are normally not in the same place, therefore the goods delivery service is necessary for all industries. 
If the service is good, it will add up to customer satisfaction. 
However, theres still no clearly to evaluate the quality of delivery service in which producer cannot improve the delivery process consistently with the customers need. 
This study is built up to introduce the way to evaluate the quality of delivery service, which provide useful information to increase the quality of service. 
The study started from choosing the suitable model for evaluating the quality of delivery service. 
Then researcher developed the indexes for all parts of service according to the selected models. 
Those measures are brought to test for the content validity by expertise on delivery service of public and private division. 
Finally, the developed model and indexes brought to test with two different cased studies in organization size, product varieties and volume of goods to be delivered in order to make sure that the model and indexes is well developed for evaluating the quality of delivery service. 
The analysis of these two cases shown that the "Service Quality Gap Model" is suitable for using to evaluate the quality of delivery service. 
Since this model can assess the completion of 5 parts of service qualities which are study of customers need, define the standard service provide, ability to serve, public relation on service provide and quality of service. 
Moreover, we found that 60 indexes can evaluate the quality of delivery goods to customer by interviewing the customers, executive officers and operation staff of service provider. 
Its shown that small organization with lower variety and lower delivery volume can provide better service than large organization with higher variety and higher delivery volume with the different result of customer expectation score of 0.654 and 1.135 out of 4 for small and large organization respectively. 
As the result, it can be noticed that quality of service depends on 2 factors, which are study of customers need and perceive of customers expectation from word of mouth communications about the service, personal needs, past experience on service received and public relation on service. 
The study also shown that there are three problems the customers would like deliverer to solve as follow: First, inconvenience to contact with the service provider, timeconsuming of return policy, and has not delivery goods on time. 
While the deliverer should improve its coordination between operation and public relation division, coordination within department, and manage to work consistently with company goals.