Right to Privacy is a natural fundamental right whichis created at the time a person is born. 
It is the right fora person to freely live by his/her own choice. 
This rightclosely attaches to a society. 
When individual does not wantother sections or even his state to intervene his personalactivity, it is called "Privacy." 
Whereas people have a right to know whatever happensin their society through various media, both mass andinterpersonal communication, it seems more and moredifficult for individual to claim for his"Right to Privacy.
"This is due to the fact that the communications ofinformation has been speedily developed by modern devices inorder to meet with the society which at the same timeswiftly changes into what is called "Information Society.
"This kind of society gives the importance to the informationwhich takes a significant role in making either a personalor business decision. 
The development of these devices in accessing as wellas in diffusing the private information results in awide-spread of personal negative impacts which consequentlycause the imbalance between the "Right of Privacy" and the"Communication of Information". 
That is there seems to occura disproportion of the development and legal protect for the"Right to Privacy" with such modern media. 
In Thailand, in the past the Thai paid very lessattention to the right. 
Nevertheless, when we enter into the"Information Society" of which the information is given avery important recognition without the consideration ofthe limitation of its accession and diffusion and suchaccession and diffusion bring about into account howindividual legally has the right on his private informationand how far the communications are legally limited. 
Thesenegative impacts are for examples - reputation destruction,irritation, and mental impacts. 
This thesis surveyed the Thai existing laws whichconcern the "Right to Privacy" in communication ofinformation comparing with the laws of the United Kingdomand the United States of America. 
From the study, it isfounded that the laws of the protection of the "Right toPrivacy" in Thailand is not well-established. 
Additionally,they scatter in various private and public laws. 
There is nospecific relating statute. 
In case that individual isinjured by a violation of the "Right to Privacy" regardingindividual fact from either public or interpersonalcommunications, only the Tort Law, Section 420 is capable tobe applied. 
This is considered to be the violation of "AnyRight of Another Person" which may be atoned by acompensation according to the Section 438. 
In conclusion,this thesis suggested the prevention to the violation of the"Right to Privacy" and the control of the informationcommunications. 
In so doing, There must be the accessibilitycontrol device at the same time it is proposed that thepossessor of the information should have a duty to keep suchinformation out of any infringement.