~uBackground~u Spelling is relevant to the four skills : listening, speaking, reading and writing. 
Of course, wrong spelling will affect these four skills. 
At present, in the teaching and learning English, the problem of misspelling is still existing. 
Thus, in learning how to spell a word in English, the students are required to spell it correctly by being able to know which consonants or vowels are to be made up into a certain word of vocabulary. 
In teaching spelling, the teachers must give the students a lot of practice and drills. 
However, if the teachers use the same and monotonous technique, the students will get bored. 
Therefore, the teachers should use many different methods in teaching spelling in order to increase the students academic achievement in spelling. 
Especially, by introducing games into the teaching and learning, it will arouse the interest of the students. 
Up till now, as far as it been done in teaching spelling, the teachers let the students learn mainly by memorizing ; and there are still a lot of problems in spelling. 
Consequently, the researcher is interested in studying about teaching spelling by the method of using games and by the conventional method in order to compare the achievement and the retention of the students taught by these two methods. 
The result of the study will be as guidelines to help increase the effectiveness of the teaching and learning in the area of spelling English vocabulary. 
~uPurposes of the Study~u 
1. To compare the achievement in spelling English words of Prathomsuksa-six students, taught by the method of using games and by the conventional method. 
2. To compare the retention in spelling English words of Prathomsuksa-six students, taught by the method of using games and by the conventional method. 
~uHypotheses~u 
1. The academic achievement in spelling English words of Prathomsuksa-six students taught by the method of using games is higher than that of the students taught by the conventional method. 
2. The retention of spelling English words of Prathomsuksa-six students taught by the method of using games is higher than that of the students taught by the conventional method. 
~uMethodology~u The sample of the study was composed of 60 Prathomsuksa-six students, studying in the third term of the academic year 1.989, of Banhuayharn School, Ronpiboon District, Nakornsrithammarat Province. 
The students were divided into the experiment group and the control group, in which there were 30 students in one class for each group. 
The instruments used in the experiment were lesson plans in teaching spelling by the method of using games and by the conventional method, including a set of spelling test which had the reliability of 0.84. 
The data were analyzed by means of t-test. 
~uConclusion~u The findings of the study were as follow : 
1. The students taught by the method of using games gained significantly higher achievement than those taught by the conventional method did at the level of .01. 
2. The students taught by the method of using games had significantly higher retention than those taught by the conventional method did at the level of .05.
