The objective of this research is to create understandingof the presentation procedure of "improvised news" on the oilsituation in Thailand, writers' methods of citing sources of"improvised news", and factors which determine writers' selectionof news on the oil situation for publication. 
The researcherhas conducted a study and analysis of data from documents andindividual interview. 
This study employed qualitative research guidelines foranalysis texts of "improvised news" on the oil situation cariredby Thai Rath and Daily News newspapers and data obtained frominterviews with writers and sources of news that use this type ofcommunication channel. 
The rumour concept of Tamotsu Shibutani,Agenda - Setting Theory and Semiology Theory were used as anapproach to research problems. 
It can be summarzed from the study that writers took thefollowing steps to present "improvised news" on the oilsituation. 
They discussed news issues which are of publicinterest and made a review of them, checking facts from reliablenews sources. 
In some cases where there was no evidence for somenews, writers teased some information into the substance of thearticle to incite the persons concerned to respond by providingadditional information on the the subject. 
Sometimes,speculative news was written in order to create a general beliefwhich could serve as a selling point for the newspaper. 
Writersattempted to study the data, using their own skill and discretionin decision making, making their own choice to write about, thusrendering their work as independent. 
Any references to sources of "improvised news" made bywriters were institutional and not individual, and these newssources were always kept secret. 
Factors influencing the selection of contents presented as"improvised news" on the oil situation include the following:news items affecting the general public or deemed to be in thepublic interest, the discretion of the writers and the importantfactor of time limitation. 
Selection of news content alsodepended on the sole discretion of writers as well as on theprevalent policies of the newspaper at that time. 
It was concluded that "improvised news" is a product ofcommunication networks. 
Conveyors of Communications can bedivided into news sources, writers and readers. 
Hence writersserve as an important mediator before the information ispresented to the public. 
Information received from each conveyortherefore contains elements of interpretation mixed with theopinions based on their individual frame of reference. 
From theabove conclusion, it may be said that "improvised news" on theoil situation in Thailand were only "rumour".