~uBackground~u Teaching and learning English in-Thai schools have always been ineffective. 
Thera are many problem involved in teaching English in Thailand, especially, concerning teachers. 
Many teachers have problems with pronunciation, many of them are not English major, and have received no in-service training as teachers of English according to B.E. 2521 Primary School Curriculum. 
Many teachers use very few instructional aids. 
All these problems contribute to students low achievement in learning English. 
Unless some corrective measure are provided improvement in students achievements is improbable. 
Sakolnakhorn Province has 621 schools under the office of Primary Education. 
Of these 621 schools 71.33 percent or 443 schools teach English, and the trend is increasing. 
Most of these schools are faced with the problem of the students low achievement in learning English. 
The researcher is interested in finding information concerning teachers needs as a way to suggest to the authorities involved the measures most likely to improve the standard of English teaching in the province. 
~uObjectives~u 
1.To study the requirements for improving the teaching standards of English teachers in four areas teaching skill, teaching and learning activities, utilization of instructional aids, measurement and evaluation. 
2.To compare the needs for improved teaching standard among English teachers, in the 4 areas mentioned above considering variable factors as follows :
2.1 English and non-English major
2.2 English teaching experience
2.3 School size. 
~uHypothesis~u 
1. Teachers with English and non-English major will differ in their need for teaching competency improvement. 
2. Teachers with different English teaching experience will differ in their need for teaching competency improvement. 
3. Teachers from different school sizes will differ in their need for teaching competency improvement. 
4. There is interaction between academic major, English teaching experience and school size related to the need for teaching competency improvement of English teachers. 
~uMethodology~u The sampling method for this research was stratified random sampling selecting 70 percents from each category of school, there were 309 teachers but correctly returned questionnaire numbered 255 or 82.52 percent. 
Three-way ANOVA computer program SPSS/PC(+) was used for data analysis.
~uSummary of the Results~u The results of the findings were : 
1. Teachers need for English competency improvement was at a high level, respectively as followed : 
English teaching skill, teaching and learning activities, measurement and evaluation and utilization of instructional aids. 
2. English major teachers and non-English major teachers both with training and no training in English teaching had no statistically significant difference in the need for teaching competency improvement. 
3. There was no significant difference between teachers who had less than 4 years experience arid those with more. 
4. The need for improvement among teachers from large schools was significantly greater than among teachers from medium sized and small schools at the .05 level. 
5. The interaction between academic major, teaching experience and size of school had no statistically significant difference ; but when consider each need there was significant difference at the .05 level in teaching and learning activities.
