The purpose of this research was to study dietary patterns and nutritional status of the elderly in Songkhla. 
The sample consisted of 178 older persons. 
Subjects were interviewed for sociodemographic data and dietary patterns. 
Clinical examination and evaluation of weight, hight were assessed fornutritional status. 
The results of the study showed that the majority of the elderly had 5 meal-times each day : 3 main meals and 2 light meals. 
The elderly consummed rice and cooked-food for 3 main meals while dessert and fruits for light meal. 
Most of the aged preferred sea food, soft dessert, pork with medium fat, swamp cabbage and mango but disliked beaf, hard or brittle dessert, cream cake, collard and longan. 
Food items which most of the elderly consummed 6-7 days per week were sea food, rice, food which cooked with coconut or palm oil, vegetable and fruit but most of them never consummed curd, instant noodles, cream cake, mineral beverage and uncooked-food. 
Most of the elderly did not consummed vitamin or mineral supplement without doctors prescription. 
Some of them consummed betel. 
They chose to take delicious food. 
The elderly and the other persons in their families consummed the same food. 
They liked salty flavour and added fish-sauce or salt into cooked-food. 
The older persons drank pool-water 5-6 glasses per day. 
These subjects consummed five food groups daily : protein carbohydrate fat vitamin and mineral and water. 
They had many good dietary patterns such as consummed vegetable and fruit daily, avoided uncooked-food, alcohol or mineral beverage and vitamin or mineral supplement without doctors prescription etc. 
and many poor dietary patterns such as consummed pork with medium fat, used coconut or palm oil, chose to take delicious food etc. 
The nutritional status assessed by body mass index indicated that most of the elderly (50.5%) had normal nutritional status and 36.0% under nutritional status. 
Most of the elderly with three degree nutritional status had normal clinical examination but the subjects who were under nutritional status showed abnormal sings and symptoms more than those with normal or over nutritional status. 
These signs and symptoms were sensation loss or burning and tingling of hands and feet, pale conjunctiva or dry membrane etc. 
This study showed that nutritional status isdependent, on some dietary patterns such as taking vitamin of mineral supplement, high frequence of consummed high fat or fried food but independent of high frequence of consummed food that cooked with oil, chosing to take food or seeking for knowledge at the 0.05 level of significance.