As the result of rapidly growth in the industries, the complexity of production process is also greater than before.
The conventional control system can no longer provide acceptable results due to its capability limitation in controlling the multi-process and the real time control.
SCADA system is introduced to these problems.
However, the development in SCADA only tends to develop the part of data acquisition while controller is usually the conventional one such as ON/OFF.
This research, therefore, focuses on the set up of a SCADA prototype, which has more alternative controllers.
Information communication of the developed system is based on the RS-485 standard and the data are transmitted in the half-duplex communication with 2-wire transmission line in the maximum 4000 feet long.
Maximum 32 units can be, connected to this SCADA system.
The prototype developed in this research consists of 2 RTUs and one CMS with 3 types of controller; GMC, fuzzy, and Pl.
The test case; evaporator, has 3 controlled variables; separation level (L2), product concentration (X2), and operating pressure (P2).
Fuzzy controller was developed by the NFC steps; the fuzzy rule based controller.
Fuzzy c-means clustering and partition coefficient were applied in the data partitioning step.
In addition, two types of membership function; triangular and bell shape, were used to study the effect of the membership function on the control performance, and the application of fuzzy rule based controller on SCADA system.
There are 10 rules for load change and 30 rules for set point change in the 1(st) fuzzifier.
For the 2(nd) fuzzifier, it needs 22 and 23 rules for the load and set point change.
 Triangular gives a smoother control because it has no internal conflicting rules as in the bell shape membership function.
The comparison of these controllers indicates that GMC gives the best control because it by nature includes the feedforward, and decoupling characteristics although it uses only usual feedback control loop.
For fuzzy controller, only the decoupling is included so the control result cannot be better than GMC.
However, this fuzzy controller was trained by GMC since it uses the numerical data from the simulation of evaporator with GMC.
The control efficiency can be lost due to the mapping steps in fuzzy control.
PI gives the worst result because it handles 3 common feedback loops simultaneously, so there still is an inherent coupling effect.
Moreover, PI does not naturally provide the feedforward characteristic.
 