Tai Chi Chaun (TCC), a traditional Chinese conditioning exercise, has beenwidely practiced in Thailand. 
It requires only little space and no expensiveequipment. 
During the performance of TCC, mind concentration and breathing controlare integrated with graceful body movement. 
The objective of this study was todetermine the effect of TCC exercise on glycemic control and aerobic capacity inNIDDM (type 2) patients. 
Sixteen participants (11 women and 5 men, mean age 58.81(+,ฑ)5yr) were sedentary, type 2 diabetics, on an oral hypo-glycemic drug, insulin, and nospecified diet regimen at study onset and throughout this period. 
Exercise TCC about1 hour thrice per week for 16 weeks. 
Body weight, percent body fat, flexibility,fasting plasma glucose (FPG), glycosylated hemoglobin (HbAl c), lipid profile, andcardiorespiratory fitness were evaluated at baseline (first week), in the middle (8week), and at the end (16 weeks) of TCC program. 
The result showed that 34 per cent significantly increase in flexibility ateighteenth weeks and 60 per cent of TCC exercise at sixteenth weeks in comparisonwith a first week (p<0.05). 
FPG and HbAlc significantly decrease 15 per cent (p<0.05)and 13 per cent (p<0.01), respectively from baseline to sixteen weeks. 
No significantchange was found in body weight, percent body fat, lipid profile. 
In addition, thesesubjects showed 10 per cent significantly increase in VO(,2)peak and 12 per centincrease in peak work rate at the peak exercise (p<0.05). 
At the ventilatorythreshold, the increment of 12 per cent was found in VO(,2) and 55 per cent in workrate (p<0.05) 
in comparison between first week and sixteenth weeks. 
Exerciseintensity was estimated to 70 per cent of maximal heart rate from peak exercise test,which corresponds to moderate exercise intensity. 
In conclusion, the regular TCC exercise could improve diabetic controls andphysical fitness. 
It is safe effective, suitable and could be a choice of exercisetherapy to recommend for elderly diabetes.