In rehabilitation of post TKA patients, it is important to promote muscle strength, as well as a range of knee joint motion exercises to help with the prevention of joint stiffness and instability after surgery. 
Pain encountered by patients during exercise in a rehabilitation period is one of the worst experiences. 
However, nurses are expected to use nursing care and available proven techniques to lessen the level of pain during exercises such as massage. 
The purpose of this study was to study the effect of massage on pain in patients undergoing rehabilitation after total knee arthroplasty. 
The 30 eligible TKA patients from Siriraj Hospital were selected according to the inclusion criteria of the study. 
Simple crossover design was used for this study. 
All subjects were alternately placed in either the experimental group or the control group. 
The experimental group received massage intervention on either the fifth or sixth postoperative day, and before the commencement of exercise. 
The control group did not receive massage intervention. 
Pain intensity was evaluated before and after exercise in both the control and experimental groups. 
A comparison of pain scores between the two groups was analyzed by ANOVA for simple crossover design. 
The results of this study indicated that pain intensity in TKA patients undergoing rehabilitation after receiving massage was statistically significantly lower than those who did not receive massage (P < .001). 
Moreover, most subjects (76%) who received massage were most satisfied with massage, and 93% of treatment subjects reported that they felt comfortable after massage, with 90% experiencing relaxation after massage. 
The results also suggest that nurses can use massage as complementary therapy for the relief of mild to moderate pain on either the fifth or sixth postoperative days with TKA patients. 
Furthermore, nurses may introduce massage intervention for a self-care approach in decreasing pain within the home environment for this patient population.