Constipation is a common problem that may lead to dangerous complications in neurological patients. 
Knowledge and comprehensive skills to prevent and manipulate constipation are considered as essential nurses responsibilities. 
This study aimed to survey nursing activities for the prevention and manipulation of constipation in neurological patients. 
One hundred professional nurses from King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital and Taksin Hospital who had experiences in caring for neurological patients of at least six months were included in this study. 
The data were collected by utilizing questionnaires developed by the investigator. 
Participants in this study were 100 female nurses whose ages ranged from 22-51 years ((X) = 29.51, S.D = 6.25). 
Most of them had more than five years experiences in caring for neurological patients. 
But very few had experiences in training for prevention or manipulating of constipation. 
The results revealed that the most common issues in nursing activities for prevention and manipulating of constipation were diagnosis for constipation by inspection, palpation, percussion, auscultation, and digital anal stimulation. 
Twentyfour to Forty-five percentages of nurses regularly assessed basic information on patients defecation. 
The majority of nurses regularly assessed the risks for constipation, except for characteristics of diet intake. 
In preventing constipation, only 34% regularly advised the relatives to provide patients with high fiber diet. 
Lastly, the majority of nurses manipulated the constipation regularly (49-79%) but no nurse reported the use of digital anal stimulation. 
From the findings of this study, it is recommended that there should be a development of a practical nursing standard in preventing and manipulating constipation in neurological patients. 
An enhancement of nursing skills in physical examination for constipation diagnosis, as well as the nursing intervention to prevent and manipulate constipation among neurological patients should be emphasized.