Weakness in respiratory muscles results in decreased lung volume, impaired ability to cough, as well as restriction in bed, all of which are risk factors for development of pneumonia and atelectasis, the major cause of mortality in patients with acute spinal cord injury. 
A quasi-experimental two-group design was used to determine the effects of pulmonary rehabilitation nursing on pulmonary function and respiratory complications between the control group and the experimental group. 
The twenty subjects in this study were traumatic spinal cord injury ranging between C(,4) - T(,12), admitted within 8 weeks of post injury at Maharaj Nakhonratchasima Hospital. 
Ten matched pair subjects were assigned to the experimental and the control group, based on matching criteria. 
Each subject participated in this study throughout a four week period.
The experimental group participated in pulmonary rehabilitation nursing program including: positioning, oral fluid intake, deep breathing exercise, and manually-assisted cough. 
The control group received routine care from staff nurses and other health care teams as usual. 
Data collected included demographic characteristics, medical histories, pulmonary function test, and respiratory complications. 
Pulmonary function was evaluated by measurement of the vital capacity (VC) using a spirometer. 
This was obtained at the beginning, and then repeated weekly in each subject. 
Respiratory complications including atelectasis and pneumonia, were assessed daily by physicians and researcher, using diagnostic criteria to determine these complications. 
Comparative pulmonary function between the two groups was determined at the end of the 1(st), 2(nd) , 3(rd) and 4th week by the Mann-Witney U test. 
The incidence of respiratory complications in both groups was described.
Comparative respiratory complications between two groups were tested by the Fishers Exact test. 
The majority of subjects were male, with a mean age of 38.2 years. 
There were more low level quadriplegic (70%) with a 60% of complete cord lesion. 
The results showed that there were no significant difference of the vital capacity between the two groups, which were measured at the end of the 1(st), 2(nd), 3(rd) week. 
The vital capacity of the experimental group were significantly greater than those in the control group when measure at the end of the fourth week . 
Two subjects in the control group and only one in the experimental group developed respiratory complications. 
However, there was no significant difference between the two groups . 
These findings suggest that pulmonary rehabilitation nursing may improve pulmonary function whenever this intervention is provided for a sufficient time. 
Further research should be undertaken in the various areas with a larger sample size.