This was a quasi experimental research on the application of supportive group therapy to reduce stress and coping behavior of caregivers of psychiatric patients. 
The sixteen samples were psychiatric patient caregivers who took patients to receive treatment at Prasert Kangsadalya 5, Psychiatric Unit, Siriraj Hospital. 
The samples were selected using a purposive sampling basis. 
They were divided into two groups by a Simple Random Sampling - experimental and control group, each of which consisting 8 of samples. 
The control group received guidelines and assistance similar to other caregivers taking patients to the hospital. 
The experimental group participated in a supportive group therapy program organized by researchers twice a week for 4 weeks. 
Each meeting in the program one to one and a half hours. 
The information gathered was then used to provide descriptive analysis and t - test statistical analysis. 
The threshold of statistical significance was at 0.05. 
The findings of the study showed that: 
After participating in the supportive group therapy program,
1) the subjects in the experimental group had lower levels of stress than they did before. 
2) the subjects in the experimental group had lower levels of stress than those in the control group. 
3) the subjects in the experimental group had a higher mean score for coping behavior than they did before.
4)the subjects in the experimental group had had a higher mean score for coping behavior than those in the control group. 
Recommendations This study has shown that the supportive group therapy is a good social support helping caregivers of psychiatric patients to cope with problem arising from tending to their patients based on information and support from one another in the group. 
Therefore, its appropriate to recommend continuation of the supportive group therapy for caregivers of psychiatric patients and difference group of caregivers. 
Furthermore, nursing staff and the health personnel involved should be received thorough training in assessment technique, knowledges and skills.