The aim of the research was to study the effect of plyometric training on vertical jump height and ground reaction force in healthy Thai males. 
The subjects were thirty men aged eighteen to thirty years. 
All of them had right hand and leg dominance, and no history of severe injury. 
They were randomized into two groups; the control group and the plyometric training group. 
Both groups were the same age, weight, height, and body mass index. 
The plyometric training group was trained three times per week for four weeks. 
The plyometric training program in the research was developed from the literature review and the experience of coaches. 
It was also tested in the pilot study for ensure its safety as a program. 
The testing was performed on the 1(st) 7(th), and 13(th) day of testing. 
Before testing, each subject had to warm up and practice in order to accustom himself to the testing equipment. 
Three vertical jump height tests were performed with both feet landing without any part of the foot out of the forceplate. 
The ground reaction force and positions of ankle, knee, and hip in the highest vertical jump of both the countermovement and the landing phase was calculated. 
Additionally, subjects had to jump the same height as the 1(st) day of testing on the 7(th) and 13(th) day of testing. 
The results showed a significant increase in vertical jump height after plyometric training. 
No significant differences were found for the ground reaction force, however, it tended to decrease in the plyometric training group at both the countermovement and the landing phase. 
Although hip angle was significantly decreased after plyometric training both in the jump at the highest position and at the same height of the countermovement phase, no significant difference in ankle, knee, and hip angles were found in either before initial toe touch or landing phases. 
Based on the result, it could be concluded that after training for four weeks, three times per week, plyometric training could enhance vertical jump height and tended to decrease the ground reaction force in both the countermovement and the landing phase. 
For further study, it would be of interest to investigate angular velocity, speed of jumping, period of each phase, and electromyographic activity after plyometric training. 
It would also be interesting to study the effects of this plyometric program in athletes.